ONE THE S. SENATE COMMITTEE ON
ELECTIONS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS WILL COME TO ORDER.
IN RESPONSE TO THE COVE IN
NINETEEN EMERGENCY AND IT STILL
IS WITH US AND TO PROTECT THE
PUBLIC LEGISLATORS EMPLOYEES WE
MUST LIMIT NONESSENTIAL
GATHERINGS AND IT HERE TO SOCIAL
DISTANCING AND FACE COVERING
GUIDELINES IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THOSE ORDERS THE SENATE HAS MADE
NECESSARY ADJUSTMENTS TO NORMAL
PRACTICES IN ORDER TO ENSURE
THAT THE PUBLIC CONTINUES TO
HAVE ACCESS TO THE LEGISLATIVE
PROCESS. WE ARE HOLDING OUR
COMMITTEE HEARING IN THE- STREET
BUILDING IN ROOM TWENTY TWO
HUNDRED IN THE COMMITTEE ROOM
JOINING ME TODAY CENTER NEWMAN
WELCOME SENATOR NEWMAN WE ALSO
HAVE JOINING US THE CALIFORNIA
SECRETARY OF STATE DR SHIRLEY
WEBER REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE
LEGISLATIVE ANALYST'S OFFICE THE
FAIR POLITICAL PRACTICES
COMMISSION AND ORGANIZATIONS WHO
TYPICALLY USE THE CAL ACCESS AND
I'M EXPLAINED. FOR THOSE WHO
ARE. NEW TO THIS PROCESS WITH
CAL ACCESS MEANS THE FILE AND
ORGANIZE- DATA IN IN THE IN THE
SYSTEM THEY'LL BE TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS. STACEY WHEN'S
REPRESENTING THE CALIFORNIA
POLITICAL TREASURES ASSOCIATION
. AND DANIEL NEWMAN
REPRESENTING- MAP LIKE. FOR OUR
REMOTE THE DISSIDENTS PLEASE
NOTE YOUR PHONES OR COMPUTERS
THIS WILL GREATLY AID IN
ELIMINATING ANY ACOUSTIC
FEEDBACK. PASS IT EVERY TIME YOU
WISH TO BE RECOGNIZE THAT USED
TO RAISE YOUR HAND FEATURE IN
THE PROGRAM. EACH TIME YOU ARE
RECOGNIZED TO SPEAK A POP UP
WINDOW WILL APPEAR ASKING IF
YOU'D LIKE TO ON MUTE PLEASE
UNMUTE. BEFORE YOU BEGIN
SPEAKING ARE- I. T. PERSONNEL
WILL PUT YOU BACK ON ME WHEN
YOU'RE DONE ONCE RECOGNIZED TO
SPEAK PLEASE MAKE SURE YOU CAN
BE SEEN ON THE SCREEN. STATE
YOUR NAME AND THEN YOU'RE READY
TO ADDRESS THE COMMITTEE. TO
ALLOW THE PUBLIC ACCESS WITH
ADMITTED MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
INTO THE HEARING ROOM. TO THE
EXTENT THAT SOCIAL DISTANCING
REQUIREMENTS ALLOW. AND WILL BE
USING A TELECONFERENCE SERVICE
FOR THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO WISH
TO TESTIFY TODAY. FOR ALL
INDIVIDUALS WISHING TO PROVIDE
PUBLIC COMMENT. THAT THE
DISCIPLINE TOLL FREE. NUMBER AND
ACCESS CODE IS POSTED ON OUR
COMMITTEE WEBSITE. THAT WE
DISPLAYED ON THE SCREEN AND I'LL
ANNOUNCE IT NOW. TODAY'S BECAUSE
VIN NUMBER IS EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN.
TWO TWO SIX EIGHT ONE SIX THREE.
AND THE ACCESS CODE IS SEVEN
THREE SIX. TWO EIGHT THREE FOUR.
FOR DETAILED INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW
THE TELECONFERENCES SOME WORKS
PLEASE REFER TO THE SENATE-
COMMITTEE. WEBSITE FOR TICKET
TODAY'S HEARING WILL BE HEARING
ALL THE WITNESSES ON THE AGENDA
PRIOR TO TAKING ANY PUBLIC
COMMENT. WHAT'S REFERRED ALL THE
WITNESSES WILL HAVE A PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD FOR THOSE WHO
WISH TO COMMENT ON TODAY'S
GENDERS TOPIC. PLEASE NOTE THAT
IN ORDER FOR US TO HEAR YOU
CLEARLY AND AVOID ACOUSTIC
FEEDBACK. YOU MUST USE THAT
DEVICE FOR WATCHING THE HEARING
ON PRIOR TO GIVING TESTIMONY
OVER THE PHONE. IT'S IMPORTANT
WE HEAR FROM YOU. THANK YOU FOR
YOUR PATIENCE. I WILL MAINTAIN
DECORUM DURING THE HEARING AS IS
CUSTOMARY. IN ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO
IS DISRUPTIVE MAY BE REMOVED
FROM THE RUGBY IN SERVICE. OR
HAVE THEIR CONNECTIONS OF MUSIC
. OKAY I GOT THE BOILER PLATE
OUT OF THE WAY. AND SO THIS
MORNING'S HEARING WE WILL BE
EXAMINING THE ON GOING STRUGGLES
AND CHALLENGES AS IT RELATES TO
THE CHARACTER SYSTEM. AND THE
CAL ACCESS REPLACEMENT SYSTEM
WHICH IS KNOWN AS CARS. BUT FOR
THE UNINITIATED THAT ME- IT'S A
GREAT TRIVIA QUESTION WHAT IS
CAL ACCESS MEANS I'M NOT GONNA
ASK ANYBODY HERE IN THE ROOM. SO
YOU'RE NOT COULD BE PUT ON THE
SPOT. BUT IT STANDS FOR THE
CALIFORNIA AUTOMATED LOBBY
ACTIVITY. AND CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES
SEARCH SYSTEM. THE FIRST LETTER
OF ALL THOSE WORDS. COMMONLY
REFERRED TO AS CAL ACCESO LOBBY
ACTIVITY CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURE
DISCLOSURE. BUT YOU KNOW BEFORE
WE GET INTO THIS TOPIC IN A
GREAT. DEATH I WANTED TO BEGIN
WITH SOME NOTES OF APPRECIATION.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN ADDED ADMIRE OF
HISTORY AND THAT AND WHAT THAT
HAS TAUGHT US AND THOSE WHO WERE
INVOLVED IN. THE WORK THAT WE
STAND ON THEIR SHOULDERS FOR AND
I WANT TO BEGIN BY EXPRESSING MY
APPRECIATION TO SENATOR. KERR
NET. WHO IN NINETEEN NINETY
SEVEN I RECOGNIZE THAT GREATER
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY IN
LOBBYING CAMPAIGNS- WAS A IS A
GOOD THING AND PASS LEGISLATION.
THAT WOULD BEGAN WHAT BECAME THE
CALLOUTS THE SYSTEM IN THE YEAR
TWO THOUSAND- IT WASN'T TOO
LONG- INTO THAT. IMPLEMENTATION
THAT IT BECAME CLEAR THAT THE
SYSTEM WAS STRUGGLING AND NEEDED
UPGRADES AND IMPROVEMENTS-
ACCORDING TO- I THINK WAS THE ES
ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS COMMITTEE
ANALYSIS. IN TWO THOUSAND ELEVEN
THE SYSTEM WENT DOWN FOR AN
ENTIRE MONTH- SO IN DEBT. SECOND
NOTED APPRECIATION GOES TO
SENATOR YE. WHO IN TWO THOUSAND
THIRTEEN RECOGNIZING THIS
PROBLEM- ASSET A FEASIBILITY
BEES STUDY BE DONE TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT WE CAN DO TO IMPROVE THE
SYSTEM. UNFORTUNATELY HIS
LEGISLATION WHICH DID. THE
LEGISLATION WAS VETOED BY
GOVERNOR BROWN. OUR FRIEND WHO
FELT THAT IT WAS BECAUSE- QUOTE
COSTLY AND UNNECESSARY. NOT TO
BE- NOT TO GIVE UP CENTER LARA
OUR CURRENT INSURANCE
COMMISSIONER- AUTHORED
LEGISLATION IN TWO THOUSAND
FOURTEEN TO REBUILD THE SYSTEM.
ACYLATED BUT WAS ALSO VETOED BY
GOVERNOR BROWN. WHO FELT THAT
THERE WERE OTHER PROJECTS UNDER
THAT THAT WERE- ON GOING IN THE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE THAT
WERE MORE IMPORTANT. THE
KNOWLEDGE THAT THE SYSTEM HAD
ITS PROBLEMS. THIRD I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND GIVE
APPRECIATION TO THEN SECRETARY
OF STATE ALEX PADILLA WHO IN TWO
THOUSAND FIFTEEN. I KNEW SHE HAD
IT ON HIS OWN A NEW FUNCTION AND
KHALEKE SAYS CALL THE POWER
SEARCH FUNCTION- WHICH ALLOWED
INDIVIDUALS TO. BE ABLE TO LOOK
AT INDIVIDUAL DATA COMBINED
TOGETHER. SO YOU COULD SEE WHO
WAS GIVING TO MULTIPLE
CANDIDATES RATHER THAN JUST A
FLAT WHO GAVE IT THIS ONE POINT
IN TIME. I THINK THERE WAS A LOT
OF APPRECIATION FOR SENATE FOR
THEN SECRETARY OF STATE SPENDING
F. AS INITIATIVE IN AND OUT AND
PROVIDING THAT ENHANCED FUNCTION
. WHICH BRINGS US TO TWO
THOUSAND SIXTEEN- SENATOR
HERTZBERG- WITH THE CO
AUTHORSHIP OF THE SECRETARY OF
STATE. ALEX PADILLA- PASSED
LEGISLATION. THAT WAS EVENTUALLY
SIGNED BY THE GOVERNOR- TO-
PROVIDE A SIGNIFICANT
ENHANCEMENT. IN THE IN THE CALYX
A SYSTEM AT THE TIME SECRETARY
OF STATE ALEX VIDEO CALLED. CAL
ACCESS QUOTA FRANKENSTEIN'S
MONSTER OF CODE. THANK OF THAT
IS IN NEED OF QUOTE A CREATE A
COMPLETE REBUILD UNQUOTE. IN THE
ASSEMBLY ANALYSIS. IN TWO
THOUSAND SIXTEEN OF SENATOR
HERTZBERG SPILL THEY QUOTED THE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE- AND
SAID THAT. THE EXISTING SYSTEM
WHICH IS WHAT WE HAVE TODAY THIS
IN TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN. IS
FUELED BY A COMPLEX ARRAY OF
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS WRITTEN IN
FOURTEEN DIFFERENT PROGRAMMING
LANGUAGES- INCLUDING HARDWARE
FIRMWARE AND SOFTWARE. SOME NO
LONGER SUPPORTED BY THEIR VENDOR
THAT ARE BEYOND THEIR USEFUL H.
THIS IS IN TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN.
AS A RESULT THE CAL EXCESS
SYSTEM IS DENIED PUBLIC ACCESS
GONE OFFLINE. AND PUT STRAIN ON
THE SECRETARY OF STATE'S STAFF
RESOURCES. NOVEMBER TWO THOUSAND
ELEVEN AND THEY REPEAT THE FACT
THAT I SHARED EARLIER THE SYSTEM
WENT DOWN BUT MOST OF THE MONTH
OF DECEMBER. I THANK YOU TO- I
THINK IT WAS NICOLE- BAKER FOR
THE ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS COMMITTEE
FOR THE WORK THAT SHE DID AND
THAT ANALYSIS. TO ABROAD AS TO-
WHAT WE'RE EXAMINING TODAY WHICH
WAS SB THIRTEEN FORTY NINE BY
SENATORS HERTZBERG. AND SENATOR
HERTZBERG. NO NO REASON TO- SAY
WHAT THAT WAS OBVIOUS THEN AND
NOW HE HE SAYS THIS. ABOUT THAT
KHALEKE SAYS HE SAYS
TRANSPARENCY IS CRUCIAL TO A
VIBRANT DEMOCRACY. CALIFORNIA
WAS ONCE AT THE FOREFRONT OF
PROVIDING TRANSPARENCY WHEN IT
LAUNCHED CAL ACCESS IN TWO
THOUSAND. SO VOTERS COULD FIND
CAMPAIGN FINANCE AND LOBBYING
DISCLOSURES ONLINE. BUT IS NOT
BEEN SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGE YOUR
UPGRADED SENSE. AND IS NOW IN
ANTIQUATED USER UNFRIENDLY
SYSTEM THAT IS UNSTABLE AND
PRONE TO OUTAGES. A CENTER
HERTZBERG ARGUED THAT HIS
MEASURE WOULD BRING THE LATEST
TECHNOLOGY TO MAKE IT QUICK AND
EASY TO SEARCH- AND IN THAT YEAR
HE PURSUED FUNDING THROUGH THE
BUDGET. FOR THIS SYSTEM TO BE
UPGRADED AND WAS ABLE TO BEGIN
THE SUCCESSFUL FUNDING OF THAT
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT- AT THAT TIME
THE ASSESSMENT OF THE COST OF.
THIS UPGRADE THIS RE BOOTING OF
CAL ACCESS ACCORDING TO THE
ASSEMBLY APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE ANALYSIS WAS. THE
SECRETARY OF STATE SAID THE COST
WOULD BE ELEVEN POINT SIX
MILLION DOLLARS. TO DEVELOP TEST
AND IMPLEMENT THE NEW SYSTEM AND
ONGOING COSTS OF TWO POINT EIGHT
MILLION RELATED TO OPERATE AND
MAINTAIN THE SYSTEM. AND THAT
LEGISLATION AS I THINK I
MENTIONED PASSED WITH NO NO
VOTES- AND THE- THE GET THIS
SPECIFIC DIRECTION IN THAT
LEGISLATION WAS THAT IT WOULD BE
OPERATIONAL. OPERATIONAL IN TWO
THOUSAND NINETEEN. THEY GAVE THE
ROOM FOR THE SECRETARY TO DELAY
I THINK UP TO SIX MONTHS IF THEY
FELT THE SYSTEM WASN'T READY TO
GO. IN TWO THOUSAND NINETEEN. SO
AS WE KNOW. THAT THAT DID NOT.
COME TO BE. I WANTED TO THE
ASTOR A WONDERFUL. SENATE
ELECTIONS CONSULTANT TO. TO GET
THE DATA POINTS ON HOW MUCH
EXPENDITURES ARE HAPPENING WHEN
THE SYSTEM. WAS ESTABLISHED IN
WHAT IS TODAY AND I WANTED TO
SHARE THAT WITH YOU. THAT IN. IN
TWO THOUSAND ONE AND TWO
THOUSAND TWO. IT WAS SIX HUNDRED
AND THIRTEEN MILLION DOLLARS- IN
A CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURES. I CAME
FROM FIVE HUNDRED FORTY NINE
THOUSAND INDIVIDUAL. ENTITIES
SIX SEVEN THIRTEEN MILLION. WHEN
CENTER HERTZBERG LEGISLATION WAS
PASSED. IN SIXTEEN WE WERE UP TO
ONE POINT FIVE BILLION. IN
EXPENDITURES CAMPAIGN
EXPENDITURES. AND TODAY. TODAY
IN THE TWENTY ONE TWENTY TWO
YEAR WE HAD TWO POINT THREE
BILLION. IN CAMPAIGN
EXPENDITURES. FROM ONE POINT
THREE EIGHT NINE MILLION
CONTRIBUTORS. SO FROM WHEN THE
SYSTEM WAS FIRST ENVISIONED AND
IMPLEMENTED WITHOUT A MOST A
FOUR FOLD INCREASE. IN CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS. AND WE'VE HAD A
TRIPLING OF INDIVIDUAL DONORS
THAT THE SYSTEM IS SUPPOSED TO
TRACK I THOUGHT THAT WAS.
INTERESTING FACTOIDS THAT IT
PUTS THINGS IN PERSPECTIVE. THAT
WE DO KNOW THAT THAT THIS IS
THAT THE SECRETARY- MADE A
DECISION IN NINETEEN TO DELAY-
AT THE CURRENT SECRETARY WEBER.
MADE A THOUGHTFUL DECISION IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE THAT THE
SYSTEM WAS NOT READY TO BE
IMPLEMENTED ALL THE WORK THAT
HAS BEEN DONE. WAS FOR NOT THIS
OF COURSE COMES AFTER THE
LEGISLATURE ALLOCATED IN. THE AT
THE PROJECT COULD SPEND OVER
THIRTY THIRTY MILLION DOLLARS.
SO IT'S MY HOPE THAT THIS
HEARING TODAY FROM THE SECRETARY
AND FROM VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS
WILL GIVE US SAID IN UPDATE AS
TO WHAT HAPPENED. WHY WAS THE
SYSTEM NOT ABLE TO BE
IMPLEMENTED. WHAT WERE THE
SHORTCOMINGS AT THAT TIME IT DID
NOT ALLOW IT TO WHERE TO GO
FORWARD. I KNOW THERE IS A PLAN
FOR HOW WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO DO
IT BETTER I'M SURE THE SECRETARY
WILL SPEAK TO THAT. UP WITH
THIS- PERSPECTIVE IS IMPORTANT
TO US THE LEGISLATURE WE'VE
PASSED THIS. THIS IS A
REQUIREMENT- AGAIN UNANIMOUS
VOTES BY PARTISAN PROVIDED THE
MONEY. AND YET IT'S STILL NOT IN
PLACE SO WE'RE HERE FROM THE
SECRETARY WE'RE GONNA HEAR FROM
THE LEGISLATIVE ANALYST'S
OFFICE. WE'RE GOING TO HEAR FROM
THE FAIR POLITICAL PRACTICES
COMMISSION WHICH HAVE BEEN
PARTNERS IN THIS ON GOING EFFORT
TO- MAKE THESE CHANGES- AND- AND
WITH MANY OTHER STAKEHOLDERS
WHICH I KNOW WILL BRING THIS
IMPORTANT PERSPECTIVE. I WON
AGAIN WELCOME AND THANK SENATOR
NEWMAN MARK COMMITTEE FOR
JOINING ME TODAY WHEN I GIVEN
THE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE ANY
OPENING REMARKS. THANK YOU
MISTER GOOD MORNING EVERYBODY SO
NICE TO SEE EVERYONE AYE I HAD
NO IDEA KELEX HAS HAD SUCH A
CULT FOLLOWING. HERE IN THE
CAPITAL CITY. SO WHAT WE ARE
TODAY EXERCISING OUR OUR
OVERSIGHT OBLIGATIONS SOMETHING
I THINK WE DON'T DO OFTEN ENOUGH
I COMMEND THE CHEER. OF FOR
DOING THAT WELCOME CENTER WEBER
WELCOME TO YOUR STAFF- AND- IT
WAS THE CHAIR HAS DELINEATED CAL
EXCESSES IT IS A VERY IMPORTANT
REPOSITORY TOOL- DID GET USED IN
MANY WAYS TODAY'S PRODUCT. THE
IS THE RESULT OF A BUNCH OF
STATUTORY NEW SHOULD SHOULD THAT
WORK OF SUCCESSIVE SECRETARIES
OF STATE. APPRECIATE THE BURDEN
YOU INHERITED SECTOR WEBER- BUT
AS THE ANALYSIS KNOWS AS THE
CHEERS STATEMENTS MAKE CLEAR
THEIR THEIR CLEARLY BEEN ISSUES.
RELATED TO THE OPERATION THE
LEGACY SYSTEMS AND WE CURRENT-
THE CURRENT CHALLENGES HOW TO
THEN OVERLAY A NEW SYSTEM ON TOP
OF THAT AND I APPRECIATE. JUST
HOW CHALLENGING. THAT IS- AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE TODAY TO
DISCUSS. HOW TO DO THAT
EXPEDIENTLY AND EFFECTIVELY
EMPHATICALLY INTERESTED IN THE-
PPC'S INPUT- TODAY ABOUT HOW WE
NOT ONLY CURRENTLY A SOLVE THE
CURRENT PROBLEM WHILE ENSURING
TRANSPARENCY. AND ACCOUNTABILITY
PER ALL OF THE WORK THAT WENT
INTO THIS BUT ALSO ENSURING THAT
IN THE FUTURE- WE CAN UPDATE THE
SYSTEM- AND IMPROVE IT THE
ENSURE CONTINUITY. EASES
OPERATION SO- WITH THAT THANK
YOU TO THE CHAIR THANK EVERYBODY
PREDICTED BEING HERE THE EIGHT I
WILL NOTE THAT. AMONG THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOT HERE CENTER
HERTZBERG. WHO IS I GUESS
TECHNICALLY STILL A MEMBER OF
THIS AUGUST BODY BUT IT. TURNED
OUT APPRECIATE ALL THE WORK THAT
HE'S DONE IN THIS AREA. AND
OTHER PLACES SO YOU'RE LEFT WITH
THE TWO OF US CENTER LEYVA
CENTER NIELSEN ALSO. WOULD BE
HERE- BUT ARE MOVING ON TO THE
NEW PHASES IN THEIR LIVES SO-
GLAD TO BE HERE TODAY TO LOOK
FOR THE CONVERSATION ENDED THIS
IMPORTANT ISSUE THAT- WE NEED TO
DRILL DOWN ON SUPER. THANK YOU
MISTER TERRIFIC THANK YOU
SENATOR NEWMAN WELL FIRST WE
WANT TO WELCOME TO THE COMMITTEE
HEARING ROOM OUR SECRETARY. OF
STATE DR SHIRLEY WEBER- DR
WHATEVER YOU. HAD A- GOOD
PERSPECTIVE ON ISSUE- TEAR
SERVICE HERE AS OUR SECTOR STATE
COURSE IN THE- SERVE ON THE
ELECTION COMMITTEE. AND ASSEMBLY
AND YOU HEARD THE HERTZ BILL.
AND THOUSAND. SO YOU OF HIS. ON
THIS FOR A FOR A LOT YEARS AND
WE WELCOME YOU TO TODAY. THANK
YOU VERY MUCH AND- I WANT TO-
IT'S RED IT'S A SUPPORT. DOES IT
WORK NOW. IS IT WORKING. OKAY
GREAT THANK YOU. GOOD MORNING G.
R. GLAZER AND A GOOD MORNING TO
SENATE TO NEWMAN I AM PLEASED TO
BE WITH YOU HERE THIS MORNING- I
WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO AND AN SOS
TO COME AND SHARE WITH YOU WHAT
WE'RE DOING. AND THE CHALLENGES
THAT WE CAN THAT WE FACE AND WE
CONTINUE TO FACE AND THE
RESOLUTION TO SOME OF THOSE
CHALLENGES- WANT TO THANK THE
CHAIR FOR ALLOWING US TO.
POSTPONE THE MEETING THAT WE'RE
HAVING TODAY AS WE HAVE TO DATE
TO THE TWENTY NINTH- AND NOTED
TO DEAL WITH SO MANY ISSUES THAT
WE WERE FACING OBVIOUSLY WITH
THE ELECTIONS AND- A MUCH OF US
MY STAFF TOTALLY COMMITTED TO
MAKING SURE THAT THE- ELECTION
WAS FAIR AND TRANSPARENT AND-
ACCURATE AND EVERYTHING ELSE AND
WAS STILL COUNTING BALLOTS I
THINK WE HAVE STILL HAVE A
QUARTER OF A MILLION BALLOTS TO
COUNT. AND THE PROCESS THE MORE
WE LEGISLATION WE CREATE THE
MORE COMPLICATED BECOMES IN
TERMS OF DEALING WITH BALLOTS
THAT ARE. MAILED IN IN DIFFERENT
WAYS AND ALL THOSE KINDS OF
THINGS BUT NONE THE LESS I
APPRECIATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO.
TO ALLOW US TO DELAY THE HEARING
UNTIL TODAY AND APPRECIATE THOSE
OF YOU WHO COME. AS WELL AS
APPRECIATE THAT THE HISTORY THAT
YOU'VE GIVEN US ABOUT THE
PROJECT ITSELF. I WON'T WASTE
TIME TELLING US WHAT CARS CAL
AXIS IN CARS IS A- IS IT THEIR
TERMS OFTEN INTERCHANGEABLE BUT
CLEARLY FELL ACCESS IS THE
CURRENT SYSTEM WE HAVE. AND CARS
IS THE FUTURE SYSTEM THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO BUILD AT THIS TIME- SO
WE BELIEVE WE HAVE A CLARITY AT
LEAST WITH REGARD TO THAT AND I
KNOW OFTENTIMES MYSELF AND
OTHERS. WE USE THE TERM
INTERCHANGEABLY WHEN WE
SHOULDN'T BUT HOPEFULLY PEOPLE
WILL UNDERSTAND THAT- AS MOST OF
YOU KNOW I BECAME SECRETARY
STATE IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
JANUARY TWENTY TWENTY ONE- A
SURPRISE PRESENT. OF FROM THE
GOVERNOR- AND I APPRECIATE HIS
HIS CONFIDENCE AND- AND- AND-
NOMINATION OF ME A NOMINATION
THAT I HAD NOT ANTICIPATED AT
ALL IN MY CAREER. BUT
APPRECIATED BECAUSE I HAD-
WORKED. NOT ONLY WITH BUDGET
ISSUES BUT ALSO WORKED AS AS- AS
YOU POINTED OUT OF THE CHAIR. OF
ELECTIONS AND THEN CONTINUE TO
SERVE. ON THE ELECTIONS. AS EVEN
A I BECAME- OF THE- OF THE BY.
MAINLY BECAUSE OF TO MAKE SURE
THAT WAS SOME. WITH WEEK. TO
THE- COMMITTEE AND IT WAS NOT
TAKEN AS A- JUST SOMETHING TO BE
DONE AND AS AS A RESPONSIBILITY
RATHER THAN SOMETHING IS A
PASSION. I WANT TO THANK YOUS
THE A STAFF SCOTT WHO WORKS. AT
A BET ABOUT SERVING ME HELPING
ME WITH ELECTION COMMITTEE WHEN
HE WAS ON MY STAFF. AND THE WORK
THAT HE DID HE TRULY WAS A
CHAMPION OF ELECTIONS AND HAS
CONTINUED TO BE THAT. IN THE
PROCESS. I WHEN I BECAME
SECRETARY OF STATE IN IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE- I CAME IN WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING AND WITH THE
INFORMATION THAT I HAD RECEIVED
JUST ON THE SURFACE THAT- CARS
WOULD GO LIVE IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE. AND THE END OF JUNE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THAT WOULD BE A
CELEBRATION. FOR CARS AND THAT
WAS SOMETHING THAT I WOULD I
WOULD LOOK FORWARD TO LIVE
SUICIDE. WHO I DON'T HAVE TO
DEAL WITH CARS IT'S DONE IT'S
OVER AND IT'S GOING TO BE
SUCCESSFUL- SHORTLY THERE AFTER
AS I POINTED OUT TO- ALL THE
LEADERSHIP AND IT MEMBERS WHEN I
MET WITH THEM AS A BECAME
SECRETARY STATE AND I'M NOT SURE
IF IT WAS A GOOD THING TO SAY OR
NOT BUT I SAID TO THEM. THERE'S
NOTHING I HATE MORE THAN SOMEONE
WHO SAYS TO ME AFTER THE FACT. I
STARTED TO TELL YOU BUT- AND
THEN THEY DIDN'T AND AS A RESULT
OF THAT THEY DIDN'T TELL ME AND-
BECAUSE I THOUGHT I DIDN'T WANT
TO HEAR IT OR THAT THEY JUST
DIDN'T WANT TO. REVEAL THINGS AT
THAT POINT SO THAT WAS A
STATEMENT I MADE TO MY STAFF.
AND THE NEW STAFF IN THE END AS
WELL AS THE CURRENT STAFF SOS.
AND IMMEDIATELY PEOPLE STARTED
TO TELL ME. OF THE THINGS THAT I
HOPED I WOULDN'T HERE. AND THOSE
WERE THE THINGS AND WITH REGARDS
TO. THE ISSUES OF DATA
MIGRATION. THE HIGH NUMBER OF
TESTING THE FIX. THE NEGATIVE
FEEDBACK FROM THE USER
COMMUNITY. AND THOSE KINDS OF
THINGS- WHEN WE LOOKED AT THE
DATA AND WE AND I MET WITH ALL
OF THOSE THAT WERE INVOLVED WITH
THE PROJECT- IT WAS CLEAR THAT
THERE WAS. NOT A PERSON WHO WAS
IN DEFENSE OF THE SYSTEM- EVEN
THOSE WHO INITIALLY SAID YES
IT'S READY TO GO. BY THE TIME WE
BEGAN TO ASK QUESTIONS AND
CONTINUE TO PROBE INTO IT
WHETHER THEY WERE. DIRECTLY
INVOLVED OR INDIRECTLY INVOLVED
WITH THE SYSTEM. ALL OF THEM
RESOLVED AT THE POINT THAT JUNE
THIRTIETH THAT WAS UNREALISTIC
THAT THEY WERE NOT READY IT WAS
NOT READY TO GO LIVE- THERE WAS
NO USER TESTING ABOVE FORTY
PERCENT- WITH REGARDS IN TERMS
OF ACCEPTANCE AND SO AS A RESULT
WE- AND IT WAS NOT GOING TO GET
THERE BECAUSE THERE WAS NO
EFFORT TO. TO TEST AGAIN AND
AGAIN AND AGAIN. SO IT BECAME
CLEAR TO ME THAT THERE WAS NO
CONFIDENCE IN. IN THE READING
THIS TO LOCK THE SYSTEM- I COULD
HAVE DONE THE POLITICALLY
CORRECT THING ALONSO SYSTEM. FAN
BLAMES EVERYBODY ELSE FOR ITS
FAILURES- AND- AND BUT I.
THOUGHT CALIFORNIA DESERVE
BETTER. AND AS A RESULT WE
PROCEEDED TO TRY TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT WAS WRONG. AND WHAT WE
COULD DO. WE HI AS I SAID WE
ASKED EVERYONE WHO WAS INVOLVED
WITH THE SYSTEM WHO WAS.
TECHNICALLY WORKING ON THE
SYSTEM WIDELY CONSULTED THE
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNOLOGY THAT WAS NOT REALLY
INVOLVED WITH THE SYSTEM- BUT I
THOUGHT THE WORD. COULD HAVE
BEEN AND SHOULD HAVE BEEN BUT
THEY WEREN'T. BASED ON THE
STRUCTURE OF THE KINDS OF THINGS
THAT WERE TAKING PLACE- SO WE
HAD TO THEN ASK THE QUESTION HOW
DO WE WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE
BECAUSE I ASKED THE QUESTION
HOUSE. HOW SOON WOULD BE READY
NO ONE KNEW. WHERE ARE WE IN THE
PROCESS NO. ONE COULD SAY WITH
STAGE THREE AND WE NEED TO GET
EIGHT FOUR. WHAT THE SERMON.
THEY TO DO YOU. NO ONE COULDN'T
ME THAT THE THING WOULD. AND
THAT CONCERNING TO ME. AS WHICH
TO MOVE FORWARD- MY RESPONSE WAS
WITH INPUT FROM CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT SIC TECHNOLOGY CDT. I
MADE WHAT PROVED TO BE APPROVED
DECISION TO HAVE AN INDEPENDENT
ASSESSMENT OF THE SYSTEM- AT THE
SYSTEM'S READINESS TO DETERMINE
THE FUTURE COURSE. OF ACTION TO
ENSURE THE SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION
OF THE CARS PROJECT. SO RATHER
THAN CONTINUING DOWN A ROAD THAT
NO ONE KNEW WHERE WE WERE GOING-
I DECIDED AT THAT POINT WE NEED
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT WE WERE.
WHERE WE IN THIS PROCESS AND HOW
DO WE GET BACK TO. RESOLVING THE
ISSUE AND HOW DO WE GET CARS
MOVING AGAIN- I PAUSE THE
ONGOING DEVELOPMENT WORK EXCEPT
FOR SOME DATA PREPARATION
ACTIVITIES THAT WOULD BE USEFUL
FOR BOTH THE CURRENT. AND OR
FUTURE PROJECT ACTIVITIES- WE
PARTED WITH THE CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNOLOGY TO
CREATE A THE SOLICITATION TOOL
DOCUMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE
ESMA. REVIEW AND EVALUATE THEIR
SPONSORS AND OVERSEE THE SIX
MONTH INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT
REVIEW PROCESS. SENATE I SHOULD
MENTION ALL OF THIS AND ONCE WE
HAD HAD THIS CONVERSATION MADE
SOME DETERMINATIONS AND LOOKED
AROUND. WE ALSO MADE SURE THAT
THE- THE GOVERNOR. OF THE
LEADERS IN BOTH HOUSES WERE
AWARE OF THE CHALLENGES WE FACE.
AND THE FACT THAT WE WERE
POSTPONING THE LAUNCH AND WITH
THAT WE WANTED TO DO AN
INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT. OF TO
SEE WHERE WE WERE. AT THE SAME
TIME AS INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT
INTERNALLY WITHIN SOS. WE
CONDUCT AN INVENTORY OF THE
EXISTING CARS PROJECT TEAM OR
TEAM ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE. AND
A ROBUST LESSON LEARNED SURVEY
LED BY THE ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT. WE
RECOGNIZE AT LEAST AND IN THE
INITIAL PHASES I WAS QUESTIONING
IN ASKING THAT THERE WERE
CLEARLY SOME STRUCTURAL
INTERNAL. ISSUES WITH THE- WITH
HOW WE WILL OPERATE IN THE
PROJECT THAT WE WERE TRYING TO.
GET THE PROJECT OFF AND- AND
THOSE MANAGEMENT ISSUES NEED TO
BE ADDRESSED IF WE WERE ACTUALLY
TO MOVE FORWARD WE CAN JUST
CONTINUE TO MOVE FORWARD. AS IF
THERE HAD BEEN NO ISSUES WITHIN
INTERNALLY WITH SOS. IN TERMS OF
OUR I. T. PUT- DEPARTMENT
MANAGEMENT PARTS DEPARTMENT
THOSE WHO INVOLVED. A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF CHALLENGE AS IN TERMS
OF. ITSELF AND THAT WE NEED TO
HAVE A NEW WAY OF. WITH REGARDS
TO THIS PRICE. AND MANAGEMENT OF
IT. THE INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT
REPORT CONCLUDED THE CARS WAS
NOT READY FOR PUBLIC USE AND
STATED THAT A SOLUTION. AND
STATED THAT A SOLUTION TO
REPLACE CARS ACCESS IS POSSIBLE.
THE REPORT IDENTIFIED THE AND I
AM SO MOST OF YOU SEEN WILLIAM
REPORT. THE REPORT IDENTIFIED
THE U. RE USABLE WORK PRODUCTS
OF THE CURRENT PROJECTS SUCH AS
DATA CLEANSING READINESS
PLANNING DOCUMENTS AND
PROCESSES. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
PLAN DOCUMENTS AND PROCESSES AND
SOME MARK PRIOR MARKET RESEARCH-
QUESTIONNAIRES AND FINDINGS. AND
THEY RECOMMENDED NEEDED ACTIONS
TO DEVELOP A SUCCESSFUL SYSTEM.
BASED ON THIS INFORMATION INPUT
FROM THE PROJECT LEADERSHIP TEAM
THE CARS PROJECT WE STARTED IN
JULY WITH WHAT I BELIEVE IS A
MORE ROBUST PATH. TO COMPLETING
THE PARS CARS PROJECTS
SUCCESSFULLY. AS THE CARS
PROJECT WAS BEING RESTARTED THE-
R. S. O. S. THE I. T. DEPARTMENT
ARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DIVISION. WAS TASKED WITH
DEVELOPING A STRATEGY TO
MAINTAIN THE HEALTH AND
RELIABILITY OF THE EXISTING CARS
ACCESS SYSTEM. WE REALLY REALIZE
THAT THIS WAS AN OLD SYSTEM THAT
DIDN'T HAVE A- THAT HAD
BASICALLY MUCH OF THE- THINGS
THAT WE NORMALLY USE IN THE
SYSTEM WOULD NO LONGER
AVAILABLE. AND I CHARGED WITH
THE FACT THAT YOU CAN HAVE TO
FIGURE OUT A SYSTEM THAT'S GOING
TO KEEP THIS THING ALIVE WHAT
WE'RE BASICALLY BUILDING A NEW
NEW SYSTEM- I INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DIVISION SUPPORTS- AS
WE RESTARTING IT SAID AS A STATE
WE'VE THEY WERE TASKED WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES TO
MAINTAIN HEALTH AND RELIABILITY
OF THE SYSTEM. OUR INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DIVISION SUPPORTS
MONTHS SUPPORTS MONITORS AND
MAINTAINS THE MANY SOFTWARE
PROGRAMS OF THE CAL EXES SYSTEM
TO MAKE THE SERVICES MORE
MAINTAINABLE WITHOUT NEGATIVELY
IMPACTING CURRENT USES. THESE
SERVICES ARE BUILT ON A PLATFORM
THAT IS NO LONGER SUPPORTED BY
ANY VENDORS. BECAUSE BECAUSE
BECAUSE CAL ACCESS WAS DESIGNED
AND IMPLEMENTED BASED. ON THE
HARDWARE AND PROGRAMMING LIKE
JULY. OF THE TIME. IT WAS
CREATED TO ASSIST CANNOT BE. TO
MEET MODERN. OF THE CURRENT
CAMPAIGN FINANCE AND LOBBYING
ACTIVITIES REPORTING ENVIRONMENT
. AS A RESULT THE LEGACY SYSTEMS
SUCH AS CARL'S ACCESS BECAME
BECOME SLOWER AND SLOWER OVER
TIME WHICH MEANS PERFORMANCE
EFFICIENCY AND PRODUCTIVITY CAN
ALSO BE DECREASED. I T. D. HAS
MADE SEVERAL SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
IN OPERATIONS TO ENHANCE THE
STABILITY RECOVERY AND SUPPORT
OF THE CALLIXTUS SYSTEM. MOST
IMPORTANTLY I T. D. HAS CREATED
A CAL ACCESS RECOVERY TASK FORCE
GROUP. THAT MONITORS SYSTEM
ISSUES AND OUTAGES TWENTY FOUR
HOURS A DAY SEVEN DAYS A WEEK. I
TO D. INCORPORATED MONITORING
AND REPORTING CAPABILITIES
ALERTS WHEN CAL ACCESS CORE
COMPONENTS COULD BECOME
UNREACHABLE UNAVAILABLE OR
TRIGGER ANY A TRIGGERED BY A
DEFINED THRESHOLD. I T. D. HAS
ALSO TAKEN STEPS TO PROTECT THE
EXISTING PLATFORM AGAINST
CATASTROPHIC FAILURE. INCLUDING
ONE TO DEVELOP A DISASTER
RECOVERY STRATEGY. ESTABLISH
CLOUT ACT ARCHIVED BACKUPS BACK
UP TO ATTENTION SCHEDULES AND
PROCEDURES THAT ARE CRITICAL TO
THE RECOVERY OF CAL ACCESS
CRITICAL BUSINESS APPLICATIONS
AND DATA. AND THEY DEVELOP A
DETAIL RECOVERY PROCEDURE
INCLUDING MANUAL PROCESSES THAT
WAS THAT SUPPORT THE RECOVERY
STRATEGY AND PROVIDE FOR THE
RECOVERY OF CRITICAL BUSINESS
APPLICATIONS. OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL MONTHS MOST OUTAGES
IMPACTING CAL ACCESS HAVE BEEN
ATTRIBUTED TO INCIDENTS
INVOLVING SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE
OUTSIDE OF ESTO ES CONTROL. I T.
D. IS WORKING WITH AN INTERNET
SERVICE PROVIDER TO PROVIDE
REDUNDANCY WHICH WOULD REDUCE
DEPENDENCY ON A SINGLE
CONNECTION. RESULTING IN FEWER
OUTAGES. I TWO D. PLANS ON
MAKING CALLIXTUS MORE RELIABLE
BY UPGRADING COMPONENTS. IN THE
EVENT OF A CATASTROPHIC
CATASTROPHIC INCIDENT THE CAL
ACCESS SYSTEMS ARE BACKED UP
NIGHTLY AND RESTORED IN SEVERAL
LOCATIONS. ALLEN INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DIVISION CONTINUES TO
INVESTIGATE NEW WAYS TO MAINTAIN
THE EXISTING CALLIXTUS SYSTEM
AND ITS PERFORMANCE SUCH AS
EXPLORING PLACES CAL ACCESS OR
NEW HARDWARE. I WANT TO THANK
OUR- CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT
TECHNOLOGY FOR IMPORTANT ROLE IS
PLAYED TO SET THE CARS PROJECT
IN THE RIGHT COURSE. UNCLE IN
CLOSING SOME OF THE KIND OF WANT
TO THANK THOSE FOR HAVING ME TO
PROVIDE THIS PRESENTATION. OUR
TEAM HERE TODAY FOR THE ESTO ES
ARTS SOS TEAS AND MARGIE HI
THERE WHO IS THE ACTING CHIEF OF
OUR PUBLIC POLITICAL REFORM
DIVISION. TRISTEN CALL ME WHO IS
A CHIEF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DIVISION TOMORROW JOHNSON WHO IS
THE CHIEF BUDGET OFFICER. JOHN
HI MULLIN WHO IS ASSISTANT
PROJECT DIRECTOR AND MICHAEL
CARTER I SPECIAL PROJECT
ADVISOR- SOME OF YOU ASKED US TO
LET AND IN ADDITION IN ADDITION
TO THAT SOME OF THE OTHER
QUESTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN IMPOSED
TO US. ON A ON A REGULAR BASIS
AS YOU KNOW WHAT CONFIDENCE DO
WE HAVE THAT THIS WILL WORK THIS
TIME. AND I THINK THAT'S ALWAYS
THE QUESTION THAT'S THE YEAR.
LET ME SAY THIS THAT WE HAVE
LEARNED MUCH FROM OUR PAST
EXPERIENCES WITH THE DIETS OF
MUCH OF THE ACTIONS WE'RE
DISCUSSING TODAY. YOU KNOW WHEN
I SAY THAT I ASKED EVERYONE IN
TEN S. ES ABOUT THE PROJECT
ITSELF AND WHAT'S GOING ON AND
WHAT'S YOUR ASSESSMENT OF IT. I
DISCOVERED THAT MOST OF THE
FOLKS IN ESTO ES HAD NO INTO
CONTACT A COMMITMENT TO THE
PROJECT ITSELF. BUT IT RELIED
HEAVILY UPON OUTSIDE INDIVIDUALS
TO WORK TO RUN THE PROJECT AND
THAT OUR OWN PEOPLE INSIDE. NOT
ONLY IN OUR I. T. DEPARTMENT BUT
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNOLOGY. HAD NO REAL
ENGAGEMENT AND INVOLVEMENT WITH
THE PROJECT ITSELF. SO THEREFORE
IT MAY CAN DIFFICULT TO
DETERMINE WHO IS RUNNING THE
PROJECT AND WHERE WE WERE- WE
HAVE LEARNED MUCH FROM THE PAST
EXPERIENCE WHICH GUIDES AS IS
THAT OUR ACTIONS THAT WE
DISCUSSED TODAY. THE PROJECT IS
LEVERAGING THE DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNOLOGIES PROJECT APPROVAL
CYCLE THE PALE PLANNING PROCESS
WHICH IS A FORMAL AND DELIBERATE
PROCESS. BASED ON PROJECT
MANAGEMENT INDUSTRY STANDARDS
AND BEST PRACTICES. IT IS
DEFINED IN THE STATE'S SYSTEM
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT MANUAL.
THE SOS IN THE CD TO HAVE
EXECUTED A MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING THAT REQUIRES A
CDT PROJECT PLANNING AND
OVERSIGHT SERVICES ON THE.
PROJECT THE PROJECTS BUSINESS
AND TECHNOLOGY SUBJECT EXPERT.
THIS AND- SEVERAL STAFF WEBER AT
THE ES THE BILL'S. AND
TECHNOLOGIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
THE PROJECT HAS PRO ACTIVELY
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF STAFF IN
THE ORGANIZATION WHO HOLD
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CERTIFICATION
AND HAVE ROBUST PROJECT
MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE. THE
PROJECT HAS APPROPRIATELY STAFF
THE PROJECT IN TERMS OF SKILLS
AND EXPERTISE TO ENSURE THAT ALL
ACTIVITIES WILL BE COMPLETED IN
A TIMELY MANNER. FOR THIS REASON
I HAVE HIGH CONFIDENCE THAT THE
PROJECT WILL SUCCESSFULLY
COMPLETE ITSELF- BECAUSE WE HAVE
A TEAM THAT'S WORKING INSIDE AS
WELL AS WITH OTHERS THAT WILL BE
BLOODY AND TO BASICALLY ENSURE
THAT THE PROJECT IS ARE
PROJECTS. THAT IT IS WORKING AND
WE HAVE THE EXPERTISE THAT'S
THERE. ARE THE NECESSARY
INDIVIDUALS OF INCREASE THE
STAFF OF THOSE WHO CAN MANAGE
THE PROJECT WHO CAN ACTUALLY
WORK ON THAT THE PROJECT ITSELF
BUT ALSO. WHO ARE A PART OF THE-
THE CARS RECOVERY TEAM- CAL
ACCESS RECOVERY TEAM THAT'S THE
A THAT'S WORKING TWENTY FOUR
SEVEN TO MAKE SURE THIS PROJECT-
THAT CASH OUT THAT THAT OUR CARS
PROJECT THE ACCESS. WILL
BASICALLY BE ABLE TO SURVIVE AT
DOING THIS PROJECT ITSELF. AND
AS A POINTED OUT THEY HAVE VOTE
REGULARLY DECIDED DIFFERENT
PLACES TO PLACE THE DATA. TO PUT
THE INFORMATION NIGHTLY SO THAT
IF ANYTHING WERE TO HAPPEN THERE
IS A POT THAT THEY COULD RECOVER
IT AND THAT THEY COULD DO THE
WORK THEMSELVES- SOME OF ESTO.
BOB YOU BEST ABOUT FINANCES
WE'VE GIVEN YOU THE DATA ON ON
THE MOUNT OF MONEY USING THE
MONEY THAT'S BEEN SPENT. OVER
THE LAST TWO YEARS WE HAVE OUR
DATA SHOWS US. THAT WE HAVE
COME- DURING THE DURING THE
POLICY PERIOD- WE HAD TEN
MILLION DOLLARS IN THIS WAS AT
THE BEGINNING. OF THE OF THE
PROJECT BEFORE IT WAS PAUSED AND
IN JUNE JULY- SEVEN MILLION WAS
SPENT- AND THAT WAS MAINLY FOR
DEALING WITH THE ISSUES OF DATA-
THE MIGRATION AND OTHER THINGS
THAT WORDS. ALREADY IN PROCESS.
THIS PAST TWENTY TO TWENTY THREE
BUDGET HAS BEEN ELEVEN MILLION
TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTY NINE
THAT'S ACTUALLY BEEN. IN THE
BUDGET THE ACTUAL EXPENSE CHOOSE
ONLY BEEN TO HUNDRED IN A THAT.
SEVEN HUNDRED AND TWO DOLLARS-
BECAUSE WE HAVE A WILL BASICALLY
POLICY PROCESS PROJECTS. ARE
WORKING ON THE DOCUMENTS THAT WE
HAVE TO PUT TOGETHER AND
BASICALLY GOING OUT. AND DOING
SOLICITATION SO WE HAVE NOT
CONTINUE JUST EXPAND MONEY ON
THE PROJECT WITHOUT HAVING. A
DIRECT- INFORMATION AS TO WHO
WOULD BE DOING THE PROJECT IN
THOSE KINDS OF THINGS- YOU'VE
ALSO ASKED ABOUT THE OUTAGES AND
I THINK WE'VE ADVANCE OF THOSE
METRICS THIS MORE THIS NEEDED
BUT- WE HAVE WORKED. TO MAKE
SURE THAT THOSE OUTAGES DO NOT
AT THE ONES THAT DAY THAT UP.
WHAT FOLKS HAVE MOSTLY BEEN
CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT ONCE BEYOND
OUR CONTROL IT WAS NOT
NECESSARILY WAS IT TO DO WITH
CDT. AND MANY OF THEIR ISSUES
AND SO THE PROJECT WAS- WAS
DELAYED OR SIT DOWN DURING THAT
TIME FRAME BUT THAT WOULD NOT.
DO TO SOS AS I SAID WE HAVE A
TWENTY FOUR SEVEN PROJECT THAT'S
GOING ON WITH OUR OFFICE. WITH
OUR I. T. DD UP DEPARTMENT- AND
TEARS HERE THAT BASICALLY
ADDRESSES ALL THE ISSUES QUICKLY
AND- AND DEALS WITH IT VERY
QUICKLY. TO AVOID ANY
CATASTROPHE AS I POINTED OUT WE
HAVE. A NIGHTLY WE MOVE THE DATA
TO DIFFERENT PLACES WE HAVE BEEN
WORKING WITH VARIOUS VENDORS IN
TERMS OF THE INTERNET STORAGE.
THOSE KINDS OF THINGS SO THAT
WE'RE NOT JUST IGNORING THE FACT
THAT THIS IS NOT BROKEN DOWN
THAT IT MIGHT IF IT DID WE COULD
RECOVER IT- AND SO OUR STAFF OUR
TEAM WE HAVE A TEAM OF THOSE WHO
BASICALLY DEAL WITH THE- THE-
CARD CAL ACCESS TWENTY FOUR
SEVEN- TO MAKE SURE THAT IT IS
FUNCTIONAL AND WE'RE LOOKING FOR
VARIOUS OTHER FORMS OF. OF
STORAGE AND PLACEMENT FOR A
PLATFORM FOR THAT DATA THAT'S
THE YEAR. SOMEWHERE WHERE THE
FACT THAT THE SYSTEM IS OLD AND
AS A RESULT HAVE GIVEN IT
TREMENDOUS ATTENTION TO MAKE
SURE. THAT IT CAN SURVIVE DURING
THIS PROCESS WE ARE COMMITTED TO
MAKING SURE. THAT CAL ACCESS
WILL WILL SURVIVE UNTIL WE HAVE
CARS IN PLACE- WE HAVE- BECAUSE
THAT WE'VE RECRUITED- EXPERIENCE
STAFF TO AVOID OVER RELIANCE ON
CONTRACTED STAFF- WE NEED TO WIN
WE BELIEVE WE. NEED TO LEAD AND
DIRECT THE PROJECT RATHER THAN
REAL HANG UP ON COUNTRY PRICE.
MANAGER THAT ARE OUT. OF S. OF
THE- SCHEDULE SHOULD BE REAL- WE
HAVE NOT IDENTIFIED AS SOME OF
YOU ASK. HOW MUCH MONEY WILL WE
NEED WE HAVE NOT IDENTIFIED THAT
BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T HIRED THE
PERSONS WOULD WANT TO DO THE
WORK. WE DON'T WANT TO GIVE
UNREALISTIC EXPECTATIONS THAT
IT'S GOING TO COST A CERTAIN
AMOUNT AND IT'S COVERED. THAT
THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
BECAUSE- BECAUSE IT- DEMANDS OF
THE KINDS OF THINGS. CARL YOU
KNOW THE CAL ACCESS AND CARS IS
A EXTREMELY COMPLICATED AS YOU
KNOW. OF A PROJECT THAT HAS A
LOT OF DEMANDS AND A LOT OF
EXPECTATIONS ON. WHAT WE WANT TO
HAPPEN TO ONE PERSON GOES INTO
THAT AND PUSH THOSE BUTTONS AND
THOSE THINGS THAT HAPPEN. IT
DOES SOUNDS EASY BUT IT'S REALLY
COMPLICATED AND AS A RESULT WE
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IT DOES
THAT. WE'VE BEEN WORKING WITH
AND I AM GRATEFUL TO ALL OF
THOSE WHO ARE LISTED HERE WHO
TESTIFYING TODAY WE HAVE MET
WITH ALL OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS WE
WORK WITH THEM. IN ADDITION TO
THAT WHY I BELIEVE WE HAVE SO
MANY FOLKS NOW THAT ARE WORKING
WITH US BECAUSE THEY WANT CARS
TO BE SUCCESSFUL- MY STAFF MEETS
MONTHLY. WITH ALL OF THE
PARTNERS EXTERNAL PARTNERS AND
INTERNAL PARTNERS- WE MET WITH
DIFFERENT GROUPS CONCERNING
THINGS THEY'D LIKE TO HAVE ADDED
TWO. CARS WE SAID TO THEM VERY
CLEARLY- WOULD LISTING AND WE
WANT TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN BUT WE
WILL NOT DELAY THE PROJECT
BECAUSE OF A NEW. FANGLED ANGLE
THAT MIGHT BE OUT THERE THAT
SOMEBODY CAN ADD TO IT- WE KNOW
THAT LIKE ANYTHING ELSE A-
DISSERTATION WEBER THERE'S NEVER
COMPLETION COMPLETION THERE'S
NEVER AN- END. BUT YOU HAVE TO
DRAW INTO IT. AND WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE CARS MEETS ALL OF
THESE THAT HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED
IN THE LEGISLATURE AND IF WE CAN
ADD. ADDITIONAL THINGS AS WE
MET. WITH OUR- WITH THE AT THE
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE. SKEWS ME.
WORKING WITH- I ELECTIONS THAT
OF SMALL THINGS LIKE SIGNATURES
AND WHAT HAVE YOU THAT PEOPLE
THINK WE SHOULD NOT HAVE TO HAVE
NOW AND BEING ABLE TO. FILE
THINGS WHAT EVERYBODY HAVING TO
COME IN AND SIGN AND YOU KNOW
ALL THOSE KINDS OF THINGS THAT
REALLY COMPLICATE. PEOPLE'S
LIVES ARE THINGS THAT WE MAY BE
ABLE TO ACCOMPLISH- AND SO WE'RE
LISTENING TO INDIVIDUALS WE HAVE
EVERYONE. THAT'S ON BOARD THAT'S
PUT MEETING OUR STAFFS ME IN
WITH ALL OF OUR- AT. EVERY LIKE
I SAID. A MONTH. AND- AND WE
MAKE THE IN. OF WE HOPE THAT THE
PROJECT THAT THEY WILL HAVE SOME
INPUT AND I THINK ALL OF THEM
ARE HAVING INPUT. IN THE PROJECT
THIS YEAR- SO WE'VE LEARNED A
LOT FROM THE PAST PROCESS THAT
WAS THE YEAR IN TERMS OF. WHO
NEEDS TO BE ENGAGED TO HOW
PEOPLE SHOULD BE ENGAGED- WHAT
OUR GOAL SHOULD BE WHAT WE
SHOULD BE FOCUSED ON- AND NOT
DRIVEN A STUDY BY TIME AND
LIMITATIONS AND SAYING THAT.
PEOPLE SAY WHAT HAS WE RATE IN A
YEAR WELL THAT WAS ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS OF THE OF THE PROJECT.
OF THE YOU KNOW THE WISCONSIN
FOLKS GIVING DEADLINES AND
THINGS THAT WERE UNREALISTIC.
AND DEMANDING THE USE OF
SOFTWARE THE DID MEET THE DEEDS.
AND AND SO IN THIS PROCESS OF
LOOKING AT WHERE WE WERE IN
REVIEWING WE REALIZED THAT WE
HAD TO HAVE A DIFFERENT PROCESS.
DIFFERENT WORKING OPERATIONS AND
THAT- WE THANKFUL TO THE- CDT.
AND FOR THOSE THAT ARE WORKING
ON THE PROJECT AND ALL THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO ALLOWED US
THE OPPORTUNITY. TO REDO THE TO
BEGIN THE PROJECT AGAIN. AND TO
GET IT DONE FOR CALIFORNIA.
THANK YOU DR. I FIRST ME JUST
SAY THAT. YOU AND YOUR- FOR
RUNNING THESE ELECTIONS THAT
WE'RE JUST COMPLETING- IN A
TERRIFIC CAST FAIR HONEST
TRANSPARENT WAY. SHOULD NEVER
TAKE THOSE THINGS FOR GRANTED
FRAZIER SAID THAT AT THE
BEGINNING- I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT
BUT- WE'RE SO GRATEFUL FOR YOU
AND YOUR DEPARTMENT AND ALL THE
ELECTION OFFICIALS IN CALIFORNIA
HAVE DONE SUCH A GOOD.
EXCEPTIONAL JOB. IN OUR-
COLLECTIONS THAT WOULD WHICH IS
FINISHING. LET ME ALSO SAY THAT
I. APPRECIATE YOUR CAUTION- AND
SENSITIVITY AND- MAKING
PROJECTIONS GOING FORWARD- AS WE
RECOUNT THE HISTORY. EIGHT
STEALS US TO- EATING A LOT OF
DIFFERENT WAYS AND CERTAINLY.
NOT TRYING TO BE AS REALISTIC
AND STRAIGHTFORWARD ABOUT COST
IS ONE OF THOSE. AND COMPLETION
IS ONE OF THOSE ELEMENTS. I DO
WANT TO ASK A COUPLE FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS IF I MAY- ON THE ON
THE ISSUE OF OUTAGES I
APPRECIATE THE- THE OUTAGES THAT
HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY OUTSIDE
FORCES YOU MENTION THOSE. BUT
I'VE I'M INTERESTED IN KNOWING
HOW MANY OUTAGES HAVE THERE
BEEN. THAT ARE INTERNALLY
FOCUSED- IN THE SYSTEM AND YOU
MAY NOT HAVE THAT EXPERTS HERE
YOU CAN CAN ANSWER THAT IF
YOU'RE NOT ABLE TO BUT- I'D LIKE
TO KNOW IT OVER THE LAST YOU
KNOW TEN YEARS. HOW MANY HAVE
THERE BEEN. TEN YEARS L. E. A R.
L. I DO HAVE I DIDN'T GET THE
ALERTS. THAT YOU CAN CREATED
SYSTEMS THAT RIGHT ALLOW YOU TO
FIND OUT WHEN THERE'S A PROBLEM
RIGHT. WE GET THE ALERTS AND I'M
NOT SURE IF PEOPLE IF THEIR
ACTUAL OUTAGES VERSUS- ACCESS TO
DATA AND INFORMATION MAY NOT BE
READY AVAILABLE BECAUSE THE
SYSTEM IS SOMETIMES SLOW. BUT WE
I DO HAVE MY- I. T. PERSON HERE.
AND I'LL CHRISTIAN IS HERE I
THINK THERE'S SOME. MICROPHONE
SOMEWHERE BEHIND ME OKAY
PERFECT- THAT CAN ANSWER
PROBABLY ANSWER THAT QUESTION IT
SOUNDS DAUNTING WHEN YOU THINK
ABOUT THE NUMBERS BUT IF YOU
ACTUALLY LOOK AT IT IN TERMS OF
WHAT THOSE NUMBERS MEAN AND HE'S
MUCH MORE. TECH SAVVY THAN I
WOULD EVER BE- AND SO I'M
ALLOWED TO QUESTION IF YOU CAN
ANSWER SOME OF THAT FOR US I
DON'T KNOW IF I CAN GO BACK TEN
YEARS- BUT I. GAVE YOU WAS ONLY
TO TWELVE YEARS OLD AT THE TIME
SO THAT'S PROBABLY WHY. YOU GIVE
US YOUR NAME FOR THE PERSON
CALLED ME. OKAY THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE OKAY SO THE QUESTION
WAS HOW MANY OUTAGES TWENTY ONE
NOT MAKE ALCOHOL SIMPLIFIED IN
IN TWENTY ONE OR TWENTY TWO THUS
FAR HOW MANY. AND I CERTAINLY
GOT ON THE SYSTEM AND NOT BEEN
ABLE TO. GET INFORMATION
GASSER'S SO THERE'S AND THERE'S
FOR MANY HAVE THERE BEEN AS
OPPOSED TO THREE TWENTY TWO
THERE'S BEEN ABOUT FOUR OUTAGES
THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT WE SEE
OUTAGES- THERE SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN'T RECOVER FROM- THAT WOULD
TAKE UP. OVER TWENTY FOUR HOURS
SO ABOUT FOR. INTERNALLY WE
HAVEN'T HAD TOO MANY OUTAGES ON
AVERAGE WE HAVE PROB FORTIFY
ABOUT OUTAGES- THAT COULD BE
SOMETHING AS SIMPLE AS REMOVING
THE WEB SERVER IN THAT LAST LAST
INVOLVED FIVE SEVEN MINUTES. SO
HOW MANY OF THOSE HAVE THERE
BEEN AGAIN. WITH THE SYSTEM
ISN'T WORKING AND I'M
RESPONSIVE. WITH THAT'S FIVE FOR
A MINUTE OR AN HOUR. HOW MANY OF
THOSE HAVE INTERNALLY NOW ONLY
TALKING ABOUT WITHIN THE SYSTEM
ITSELF. HOW MANY HAVE THERE BEEN
THIS YEAR SO FAR. YES AGAIN I
THINK THERE'S TWO DIFFERENT
QUESTIONS SO WHEN IS NOT
RESPONSIVE AGAIN. THOSE ABOUT
FOUR. OF THOSE INTERNALLY- YEAH
THEY'RE THEY'RE BOTH INTERNAL
AND EXTERNAL SO IF THE SYSTEM
GOES NOW- FOR C. T. R. FOR THAT
OUR FIBER GOES DOWN THEN WE
DON'T HAVE INTERNALLY SO. IF
YOU'RE ASKING FOR ABOUT
INTERRUPTIONS- WITH- THAT COULD
BE A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT SO WHAT
WE DO IS FOR EXAMPLE AGAIN. I'M
TALKING ABOUT ANYTHING SO IN
INTERRUPTION WOULD WOULD APPLY
YEAH. AND SOMETHING GREATER THAN
THAT SO. IF YOU. GET A SENSE OF
HOW. HOW BROKEN IS THE SYSTEM I
MEAN SO IF. IF IT'S RUNNING
GREAT THEN TELL ME IT'S RUNNING
GREAT AND- WE CAN ALL WELL. IT'S
DEFINITELY A FRANKENSTEIN LIKE
MICHAEL SAY BEFORE IT HERE
HERE'S SOME STATISTICS WOULD
HAVE LESS THE LAST SEVERAL
MONTHS FOR EXAMPLE. IN JULY WE
RECEIVED ABOUT A HUNDRED SEVENTY
SIX ALERTS. OKAY ALERT FOR US IS
UP AND DOWN. OKAY SO CAN ON
AVERAGE- IT RECOVERS IN TWO
POINT EIGHT MINUTES. BOB IN
AUGUST WE HAD AROUND TWO HUNDRED
FOURTEEN ALERTS- AVERAGE TIME
WAS TWO POINT SIX MINUTES- IN
SEPTEMBER. WE HAD A HUNDRED
SIXTY FIVE ALERTS. AVERAGE
RECOVERY TIME TO BE THREE
MINUTES IN AUG- WE HAVE. A TWO
HUNDRED. IN IN JULY WE HAD A
HUNDRED. SO AROUND THE TWO POINT
TWO MINUTES FOR THE APPRECIATE
THAT BYE MONTHS SO WITH THAT
THAT'S IT. OKAY I CAN DO THE
MATH AND- AN AVERAGE OF A
HUNDRED NINETY A MONTH BUT I. IN
TWENTY ONE HOW MANY ALERTS OF
THEIR BAND YOU HAVE A TOTAL
NUMBER FOR TWENTY ONE. I DON'T
HAVE THAT NUMBER OFF THE TOP MY
IT WOULD BE TWENTY TWENTY ONE I
THINK WE INSPECTED WE CAN'T
LIMIT THE ALERTING SYSTEM IN
TWENTY TWENTY TWO- SO WE WERE
TALK ABOUT RIGHT NOW IS THE
CARTS TEAM WHICH IS A CALYX
RESCUE TEAM. ALL THAT WAS. KIND
OF CRAZY IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO.
DID YOU HAVE ANY WAY OF GIVING
ME THAT THE FACTS ON THAT.
ALERTS ADAGES PROBLEMS GOING
BACK IN EACH YEAR DO YOU HAVE
ANY WAY TO GIVE ME WHILE I'VE
ONLY BEEN HERE FOR NOT THAT LONG
BUT I CAN TELL YOU WHAT HAVE YOU
GOT TO GIVE YOU SOME INFORMATION
ABOUT TWENTY TWENTY TWO WILL
START ON THE LEARNING SO WHAT WE
SEE IS- WE MONITOR UPDOWN
STATUSES FOR KALANK SAYS. IN
THOSE CAN BE SOMETHING AS SIMPLE
AS A TWO MINUTE- OUTAGE IN THE
AND WE COVER IN THE AND
SOMETIMES WE HAVE TO- KIND
INTERVENE IN A MAYBE. WE START
US SERVICE- SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE NUMBERS OFF TOP OF MY HEAD-
I DO HAVE A COUPLE OF THE GUYS
HERE WHO WORK ON IT- I STILL
HAVE THE NUMBER FOR TWO OKAY
TWENTY ONE OR NOT IF YOU CAN GET
SOME OF THOSE FACTS FOR US TO
BUY PROCEED. OKAY ARE. SEVEN I'M
TRYING TO I'M- A LITTLE BIT
BETTER THE DECISION TO POSTPONE.
THE END IF YOU MENTION THE
STAKEHOLDERS I KNOW WE'RE GONNA
HEAR FROM THEM WHO. WERE YOU
ABLE TO CONSULT WITH THEM ON
THIS DECISION TO. TO POSTPONE IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE YOU MENTIONED
THE THREE ISSUES. DATA MIGRATION
TESTING DEFECTS. BACK FROM THE
USER COMMUNITY COMMUNITY. I KNOW
THE F. PPC IN THE LEGISLATION
ARE PARTNERS WITH THE U. S.
WHERE THEY CONSULTED AND THE
DECISION TO DELAY. ALL OF THEM
WERE INVOLVED. WITH THE STAFF OF
MYSELF IN TERMS OF WHAT WAS
GOING ON WITH THE PROJECT AND
WHAT THE NOT. THERE WAS ANYONE
WHO COULD ACTUALLY SAY THIS
PROJECT IS WORKING- IN THE END-
THEY ALL AGREED. THAT THE
PROJECT NEEDED TO BE DELAYED
BECAUSE IT WAS NOT GOING TO DO
WHAT WAS ANTICIPATED- WE GOT. A
TO SAY THE USER TESTING AND
THOSE KINDS OF THINGS WERE CLEAR
THEY HAVE ALL THOSE GROUPS AGREE
THE F. PPC AND OTHERS. I'M NOT
SURE IF THEY AGREE- A DATE AFTER
I'D I'D I THINK AFTERWARDS THE
THERE WAS A MEETING THAT ALL
AGREED AT THAT POINT THAT. THAT
THE COULD NOT GO FORWARD- THAT
THEY WERE PLEASE WE HAD HALTED
THE PROJECT BECAUSE OF THE- THE
DATA THAT WE WERE RECEIVING THAT
THEY HAD RECEIVED BEFORE I AT. I
MEAN THEY WERE ALL AWARE OF THE
OF THE USER DATA THAT WAS THE I
WAS THE PROBABLY THE LAST ONE TO
BE INFORMED. OF THIS PROJECT HAD
A. SIGNIFICANT NUMBER PROBLEMS.
AND- WHEN I WENT BACK AND LOOKED
AT THE- SOME OF THE BUDGET
LANGUAGE FOR- THE FUNDING. THIS
IS THE FEWER MAYBE OR SHARE THE
BUDGET COMMITTEE. AT THE TIME-
NOT TO CERTAINLY NOT THE
SECRETARY STATE BUTTON- THE DATE
THE INITIAL FUNDING WAS TO
PROVIDE FOR A- GOING OUT TO BID.
ON VENDORS TO HELP. CREATE
IMPLEMENT THIS THIS THREE
REBOOT- WHO WITH THE FIRMS THAT
WERE HIRED TO DO THE WORK. I
DON'T REMEMBER THE NAMES THAT
YOU HAD BEEN ASKED THAT QUESTION
BUT I'M SURE SOME OF THEM MARGIE
MIGHT KNOW- CHINOS THIS IS OUR-
MARGIE WAS THERE DOING THE
PROJECT AND NOW SHE IS THE- AND
FROM- DIRECTOR OF THE PROJECT.
YES GREAT HI MARGIE IDENTIFY
YOURSELF YES MY NAME IS MARGIE
HAIDAR. AND I AM THE ACTING
DIVISION CHIEF FOR THE POLITICAL
REFORM DIVISION. RIGHT SO YOUR
QUESTION IS. WHO WAS TWO
THOUSAND SIXTEEN. AND TWO
THOUSAND SEVENTEEN THE BUDGET
ACT PROVIDED A MILLION DOLLARS
TO GO. FOR A- OUT TO BID FOR
THE- MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY HELP.
TO IMPLEMENT THIS THIS. PROVE IT
WHO IS RETAINED WITH FIRMS
RETAINED TO DO THE WORK. THE THE
SYSTEM INTEGRATORS THAT. FIRST
DEVELOP THE SYSTEM THAT COMPANY
NAME WAS PERSPECTIVE. PROSPECTED
WAS THE ONE THAT WAS RETAINED
CORRECT. PERSPECTIVE BECAUSE-
PERSPECTIVE. MMHM AND WHAT WAS
IT WHAT WAS THE REQUIREMENTS OF
THAT CONTRACT. I WAS NOT
INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT AT THAT
TIME BUT WHAT I CAN TELL YOU IS.
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE PROJECT
DO YOU MEAN- WHAT WAS THE SYSTEM
SUPPOSED TO DO WHAT WERE THEY
REQUIRED TO DO FOR THE FOR THE-
MANY HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
NOT MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT
THEY WERE PAID- I DID NOT. SEE
THE CONTRACT SO I CAN'T TELL
YOU- OKAY EXACTLY AS IT THE ONLY
FIRM THAT WAS RETAINED TO DO
THAT WORK CORRECT SO WHEN I SEE
IN THE BUDGET DOCUMENTS THAT THE
SECRETARY PROVIDED IN TWO
THOUSAND EIGHTEEN AND NINETEEN.
CHOSEN EXPENDITURES SIX POINT
ONE MILLION DOLLARS FOR
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES THAT ALL
GO TO THE THIS COMPANY CALLED
PERSPECTIVE- I'M NOT SURE- OUR
FINANCIAL PERSON WE HAVE A NEW
FINANCIAL PERSON HERE- AND I'M
NOT SURE IF THE IF HE'S FAMILIAR
WITH THAT- EXACTLY WHO WHO DATE
OF I'M OUT WITH TO. IT PROBABLY
WAS SO LOOSE THE VAST MAJORITY
OF IT YEAH OKAY AND AS A PART OF
THAT CONTRACT THEY HAD
DELIVERABLES THAT THEY WERE
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE. THAT PART
OF THE AGREEMENT THAT WAS FORCED
WITH THAT THAT COMPANY. I'M NOT
SURE IF OUR OUR ATTORNEYS HERE
TO DEAL WITH THE- WITH THE
CONTRACT SAY LET ME SAY THAT.
YOU KNOW SOME OF MY CONCERNS
WITH THE PROJECT AS AS AS AS WE
AS I WENT INTO IT WAS THE FACT
THAT THERE WERE NO DELIVERABLES
IDENTIFIED- IT WAS TIME AND WORK
BUT NOT NECESSARILY SPECIFIC
DELIVERABLES. AND THAT IS A
CONCERN THAT I HAD AND THAT IS A
CONCERN THAT I'VE EXPRESSED IN
GOING FORWARD. THAT THE NEW
CONTRACTS HAVE TO HAVE
DELIVERABLES ATTACHED TO THE
RESOURCES THAT THEY RECEIVED. IT
WAS NOT A PART OF MY
UNDERSTANDING IT WAS NOT A PART
OF IT. THAT THAT WOULD MAKE A
LOT OF SENSE SO I DON'T WANT TO
ASSUME THIS SO LET ME ASK THE
QUESTION ABOUT. WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS ANY KIND OF CLAWBACK
PROVISIONS IN THOSE CONTRACTS
THAT. PROVIDED THAT IF THEY WERE
ABLE TO DELIVER- THE SERVICES
THAT THEY CLAIM THEY WERE
PROVIDING THE STATE THAT THAT.
WOULD BE REIMBURSED THOSE THOSE
FUNDS I ASKED THAT QUESTION
ALSO- HAVING SPENT MY MARRIED
LIFE PREMIERED TO AN ATTORNEY
AND A JUDGE THAT- I WANTED TO
KNOW HOW DO WE GET OUT OF IT AND
HOW DO WE GET MY MONEY BACK-
THAT WAS NOT. THAT WAS NOT A
PART OF THE COUNTRY. THAT I'M
FAMILIAR. AND I ASKED THOSE
QUESTIONS OF THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY WE DECIDED TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH SOME OF THE DATA-
THE USE OF RESOURCES WITH
REGARDS TO. A DATA MIGRATION AND
WHAT HAVE YOU. OF WHAT THOSE
THINGS ARE NOT IN THE CONTRACT-
AND I WAS VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
THE CONTRACT ITSELF. WE ANSWERED
WITH WHAT WE WERE GOING TO GET
FROM IT WITH WITH GOOD REASON.
I'M NOT REALLY FAMILIAR WITH
THIS FIRM AND THEIR EXPERIENCE
IN THIS AREA- AND THEIR LACK OF
PERFORMANCE THAT'S THE FIRST
TIME I'VE HEARD THEIR NAME
PERSPECTIVE. IS THAT A
CALIFORNIA FIRM. HI THERE MY
NAME'S DANA FOR BE I AM THE- ONE
OF THE COUNCIL AT IT YOU KNOW IF
THAT HAS BEEN. SOMEWHAT INVOLVED
IN THE PROJECT MAYBE LONGER THAN
A LOT OF PEOPLE HERE- AT LEAST I
KNEW ENOUGH ABOUT SOME OF THE
TIME YOU KNOW WHEN PERSPECTIVE-
WAS THE VENDOR. THAT WAS
BUILDING THE SYSTEM. AND THEN-
WHEN WE ACTUALLY PIVOTED AND
HAVE HAD A NEW VENDOR. COME ON
FOR THE SYSTEM- SO I WANNA MAKE
MYSELF AVAILABLE TO ANSWER SOME
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I THAT I-
THESE MY UNDERSTANDING OF SOME
OF THE ANSWERS. YOU KNOW I WAS
NOT THE PER I DIDN'T NEGOTIATE
THE CONTRACTS OR WASN'T INVOLVED
IN THEM BUT I DID LOOK AT THE
CONTRACTS QUITE A BIT BECAUSE AT
THE TIME. IT WAS CLEAR WE WERE
GOING TO MAKE SOME CHANGES
THROUGHOUT THE WAY I WAS- I WAS
YOU KNOW ADVISING AND THAT.
DIRECTING ON WHAT WE WHAT WHAT
REMEDIES WERE AVAILABLE TO US
AND WHAT. YOU KNOW. MOSTLY WHAT
REMEDIES TO HELP CONTEMPORARY
AND IT WOULD BE GREAT IF WE
COULD GET A COPY OF THE CONTRACT
BUT LET ME ASK YOU A FOLLOW UP
QUESTION. WAS IT AN EVERGREEN
CONTRACT- THAT- THAT PROVIDED
SERVICES OF THE EACH YEAR A
MONTH AND THIS WAS RENEWED IN
CONTINUE TO BE RENEWED. OR WHERE
THERE'S DELIVERABLES THAT WERE
REQUIRED AS PART OF THE CONTRACT
OKAY. SO THE FIRST CONTRACT THAT
WAS WITH PERSPECTIVE AND ALL
JUST ALSO ADD THE CONTRACT IS
ACTUALLY WITH. PERSPECTIVE THE
COMPANY CHANGED THEIR NAME TO
PERSPECTIVE DURING THE PROCESS
OF THE SILICON REGINALD NAY I
BELIEVE IT WAS ENTERPRISE
SERVICES LLC. OR INCORPORATED-
ERR PRICE SERVICES OR ENTERPRISE
SYSTEMS. AND WE CAN GET A COPY
OF THAT CONTRACT. THAT CONTRACT
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE IT
WAS A DELIVERABLES BASED
CONTRACT SO THERE WERE PHASES.
AND THERE WERE CERTAIN
DELIVERABLES THAT NEEDED TO BE.
FINISHED BEFORE THEY WOULD
INVOICE US AND BE PAID FOR THOSE
DELIVERABLES. AND HE SAID THERE
IS ANOTHER VENDOR THAT'S BEEN
RETAINED WHO'S THAT. YES SO- WE
ENDED THE CONTRACT WITH
PERSPECTIVE. WHEN OF THE-
PROJECT WAS NOT. FINISHING TO
OUR SATISFACTION WHAT YEAR WAS
THAT. I BELIEVE THAT THAT WAS IN
TWENTY TWENTY. OKAY THIS IS
BEFORE THE ACTUAL. TWENTY ONE.
YES CANCELLATION OR POSTPONEMENT
YES WHEN TWENTY TWENTY. YOU HAD
A CONTRACT THAT BEGAN IN TWO
THOUSAND SEVENTEEN. I IMAGINE
I'M NOT SURE WHEN IT COULD
ACTUALLY BEGAN PROVIDE I KNOW
THAT WE- THAT THAT WE-
TERMINATED THE CONTRACT BEFORE
THE SYSTEM HAD BEEN FINISHED AND
WE DID A COME TO TERMS WITH
RESPECT UP OVER WHAT THEY WOULD
BE PAID AND WHAT THEY WOULD NOT
BE PAID. AND I BELIEVE THAT- I
AND YOU KNOW I HAVE NOT LOOKED
AT THAT SETTLEMENT DOCUMENT
AGAIN RECENTLY BUT- WE DID. YEAH
WE DID WE DID NOT GO END UP IN
LITIGATION WITH RESPECT AND I
ASSUME IT'S A PUBLIC IT'S A
PUBLIC DOCUMENT PUBLIC DOCUMENT
TO HAVE A COPY OF THAT YES DID
YOU KNOW IN TOTAL WHAT WE PAID
THAT COMPANY PERSPECTIVE. I
THINK THAT IT WAS AROUND WELL.
AS A- I THINK IN TOTAL. IT WAS
PROBABLY. A LITTLE OVER FOUR
MILLION AND I'M AND I'M OKAY
SORRY I'M NOT TOTALLY SURE I
KNOW THAT THE SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT. WAS FOR SIGNIFICANTLY
LESS THAN THEY HAD WERE BILLING
FOR THE TIME THEY HAD SPENT BUT
IT WAS ABOUT THREE POINT THREE
MILLION. THE G. WHEN YOU CANCEL
THE CONTRACT IN TWENTY TWENTY
DID YOU- YES FOR YOUR MONEY BACK
I MEAN HE SAID THERE'S A
SETTLEMENT IN THE WEALTHY PAID
THE MORE MONEY. YOU WHEN YOU
CANCEL THAT CONTRACT. SO SOME OF
THIS. I WANT TO BE. WELL WHAT WE
- WHAT WE DID IS WE REFUSE TO
PAY THE INVOICE. AND SAID THAT.
WHAT WE WERE CLAIMING AT THE
TIME IS THAT THAT WE DIDN'T WE
SHOULDN'T- ANY OF THIS MONEY WE
DON'T HAVE A FINISHED PRODUCT-
THERE WAS- WHAT I DON'T WANT TO
GET INTO IS. THINGS THAT ARE
ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE- YOU
KNOW THAT HAD TO DO WITH THE-
THE NEGOTIATIONS ABOUT RIDE BUT
YOU BUT YOU INDICATED THAT THERE
WERE DELIVERABLES IN THE
CONTRACT. THERE WERE
DELIVERABLES IN THE CONTRACT AND
A CONTEMPLATION SUITS TO
LITIGATING THE FACT THAT THEY
WERE DELIVERABLES THAT WERE NOT
COMPLETED- AT THE SECRETARY'S
IDENTIFIED A LOT OF THE DEFECTS
THAT TO. REMAIN AT LEAST TWENTY
TWENTY ONE. WAS THERE ANY
CONSIDERATION TO- OF ASKING FOR
A MONEY BACK. THERE WAS
CONSIDERATION ASKING FOR MONEY
BACK AND THERE WAS. A DISK IT
SOME CONSIDERATION TO. JUST
REFUSING TO PAY. FOR THE WORK
THAT WAS THAT WAS DONE. THAT THE
FOR THE HOURS THAT WERE PUT IN
ON THE PHASES WITH THE NEXT
PHASES UP UNTIL THE TIME WE
TERMINATED THE CONTRACT. AND
THEN YOU INDICATED THERE WAS
ANOTHER VENDOR CONTRACT THAT WAS
ISSUED AFTER THAT WHO IS THAT TO
AFTER THAT THERE WAS A COMPANY
CALLED OSAS. THAT CAN YOU SPELL
THAT FOR ME- S. H. E. A. S. O.
S. A. A. S. YES I BELIEVE THE S.
A. S. PARK STANDS FOR SOFTWARE
AS A SERVICE- I BELIEVE IT'S A
LOCAL CALIFORNIA COMPANY. OKAY
AND SO THEY WERE RETAINED IN
TWENTY. I BELIEVE THEY WERE
RETAINED IN TWENTY TWENTY AND
WHAT WAS THE ESSENCE OF THAT
CONTRACT. THAT CONTRACT- WAS NOT
A DELIVERABLES BASED CONTRACT
THAT WAS A TIME AND MATERIALS
CONTRACT. I THINK I BELIEVE THE
UNDERSTANDING THERE WAS WE WERE
STILL GOING TO TRY TO MEET THE
DEADLINE THE STATUTORILY
MANDATED DEADLINE. AND THE WAY
WE WERE GOING THAT WE THOUGHT WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO DO THAT WAS UP.
BY BUILDING IN. A LITTLE MORE
SPEED AND FLEXIBILITY SO IT WAS
A SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENTS- A
PROCESS CALLED AGILE THAT THEY
THINK THEY WERE TRYING TO.
FOLLOW AT THE TIME. AND- OKAY
AND YOU SAID THAT JUST TO
CLARIFY STATUTES TEST ACTUALLY.
MANDATED THAT I'M NOT AWARE OF
THAT IT WOULD THE NINETEEN WAS
THE DEADLINE IN THE LEGISLATION
SO IS THERE SOMETHING ELSE THAT
OCCURRED THAT TO CREATE A LEGAL
OBLIGATION ON THE- OFFICE. WELL
AND AGAIN I HAVEN'T PREPARED BY
LOOKING AT ALL THE STATUTES
AGAIN BUT I BELIEVE THAT AS YOU
STATED IN THE BEGINNING OF THIS
HEARING THAT THE- THE PROMISE
WAS THAT IT WOULD BE COMPLETED.
BY TWO A TWENTY TWENTY ONE I
THINK THAT THERE WAS THERE WAS
AT ONE POINT. THE THERE WAS SOME
LEGISLATION THAT EXTENDED THE
DATE THAT CARS WAS SUPPOSED TO
BE FINISHED AND I BELIEVE THAT
THE REASON FOR THAT EXTENSION.
WAS DUE TO THE CALIFORNIA
PRIMARY CHANGING TIME THREE AND
THERE WAS NOT- THERE WAS.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN EVERYBODY THAT
WE DID NOT WANT TO BE LAUNCHING
THE SYSTEM OKAY SHOULD THAT
CLARIFICATION SO- S. A. A. S.
WAS BROUGHT IN TWENTY TWENTY ON
A TIMES IN MATERIALS AND ARE
THEY STILL RETAINED BY THE
OFFICE THERE. AND WHAT HAPPENED
IN THAT REGARD WE- DECIDED TO
TERMINATE THE CONTRACT WHEN DID
YOU TERMINATE THE CONTRACT. IT
WAS IN. TWENTY TWENTY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE AND WHAT WAS THE
REASON FOR THAT- WELL WE HAD
DECIDED WE DECIDED AS AN AGENCY
THAT THE SYSTEM WAS NOT READY TO
LAUNCH AND- IT WAS- AND WE
TERMINATED. ALL THE CONTRACTS
THAT WOULD EVENTUALLY YOU KNOW
THERE WAS DECISIONS TO TERMINATE
THE CONTRACTS THAT WERE IN PLACE
. OKAY AND SO THERE'S NO
CURRENTLY OUTSIDE VENDOR
RETAINED BY THE OFFICE TO.
ASSIST IN THIS NOW THERE IS NOT
A SYSTEM INTEGRATOR CONTRACT IN
PLACE. AT THE SAME TIME AND WHEN
THE ORIGINAL CONTRACT WAS
AWARDED TO PERSPECTIVE. IN TWO
THOUSAND SEVENTEEN WHETHER OTHER
BIDDERS FOR THAT WORK. I DON'T
KNOW I'M ASSUMING THERE WAS
EITHER BUT YOU DON'T KNOW
WHETHER IT WAS A SOLE SOURCE
CONTRACT THE ONLY PERSON THAT
STEPPED UP AND SAID WE CAN WE
CAN FIX THIS. NO I DON'T KNOW
THAT AND I WASN'T ACTUALLY
EMPLOYED WITH THE AGENCY UNTIL.
ALL RIGHT WELL THANK YOU THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT INSIDE I
APPRECIATE IT VERY MUCH. THAT
SECRETARY YOU MENTION AT THE- IN
YOUR IN YOUR REMARKS THAT. PART
OF THAT WITH THE GOOD WORK THAT
YOU'RE DOING ON ACCOUNTABILITY
IS TO. IDENTIFY SOMEONE WHO'S
ACTUALLY IN CHARGE. AND THAT
YOUR FRUSTRATION UPON COMING
INTO THE OFFICE WAS THAT. NO ONE
REALLY OWN THE PROJECT NO ONE
WAS RUNNING THE PROJECT. SO
THERE REALLY WAS NO. PROJECT
MANAGER IN IN THE OFFICE TO RUN
THIS FOR AT PROJECTS STARTING IN
TWO THOUSAND SEVENTEEN IS THAT.
YEAH I YOU KNOW WHAT I SAY OWN
IT WILL MARK YOU CAN RESPOND TO
IT YOU KNOW I AM. YOU KNOW WHEN
I ASK A PERSON WHO- IF I ASK YOU
WHO'S IN CHARGE WHO'S REALLY
RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS. I EXPECT
SOMEBODY SIGN HIM. OKAY OF THE
DAY MAY BEEN. OF WITH THAT
MARGINS TO THAT. YES AND SO IS
THE PREVIOUS ITERATION OF THE
PROJECT. THE THERE WAS NOT AN
SOS PERSON WHO WAS IN CHARGE OF
THE PROJECT. THE PROJECT WAS
BEING RUN BY A PROJECT DIRECTOR
THAT WAS C. CONTRACT. DID
EMPLOYEE. AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE HAVE LEARNED IS THAT
THAT IS NOT A GOOD WAY TO RUN A
PROJECT. CURRENTLY WHAT THE
SECRETARY HAS DONE IS MADE SURE
THAT. THERE ARE SO LAST STAFF
WHO ARE RUNNING THE PROJECT. SO
I AM THE PROJECT SPONSOR. SO I
AM RUNNING THE PROJECT WITH HELP
FROM A PROJECT DIRECTOR WHO IS
ALSO SECRETARY OF STATE EMPLOYEE
WITH AN ASSISTANT PROJECT
DIRECTOR WHO IS IN THE ROOM
TODAY. AND WITH CHRISTIAN
CORMIER DAY WHO'S THE- CHIEF OF
THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.
DIRECTOR WE ARE THEY THEY LEAVE
. TEAM THE MAIN CORD LEADERSHIP
TEAM- IF UNTIL IS THE PRIME
DIRECTOR CAN YOU SHARE US THAT
PERSONAL YESTERDAY HURDLE
PERSON. YES IT IS A REAL PERSON
AND HER NAME IS HARJEET BOSSY H.
A. R. J. I. T. A. S. I. RIGHT
AND WHO WAS THE PROJECT MANAGER
FROM THE- VENDOR THAT WAS IN
CHARGE OF THE PROJECT WITH HIS.
NAME HIS NAME WAS KEVIN IT IS
KEVIN STARR. EVANSTON AND HE IS-
AN EMPLOYEE OF PERSPECTIVE- NO
HE WAS- SASSY WAS WITH THE- SASS
THE OCS GROUP WHO IS THE PROJECT
MANAGER OF RESPECT TO. OUR HE HE
WAS NOT- SAYS HE WAS.
INDEPENDENT IT WAS DIFFERENT I'M
SORRY HE WAS NOT- SAYS HE WAS
THAT WITH AN INDEPENDENT
COMPANY. AND I'M SORRY I JUST
DON'T KNOW THE NAME OF THE
COMPANY RIGHT RIGHT BUT I HAD
ASKED EARLIER ABOUT OUTSIDE
VENDORS AND YOU'D MENTIONED TO.
RESPECT AND THEN- SASS AS THE
SECOND IS THERE A THIRD- OUTSIDE
VENDOR THEN THAT WAS HIRED TO
HELP WITH THIS PROJECT. SEVERAL
COULD YOU COME UP TO THE RECORD
AND SHARE AYE AYE WELL THAT GO
BACK TO MY ORIGINAL QUESTION
WHICH IS. WHO THE OUTSIDE
VENDORS THAT WERE PAID BY. BY
THE STATE- TO ASSIST WITH THIS
PROJECT THERE WAS MORE THAN-
PERSPECTIVE AND OSAS PERSPECTIVE
AND OSAS WERE BOTH WHAT WE CALL
SYSTEM INTEGRATORS. THOUGHT
THERE WERE A LOT OF THERE WERE
SEVERAL OTHER ANCILLARY
CONTRACTS. THAT I DO NOT HAVE A
LIST OF I CAN I CAN GET GIVE YOU
ALL OF THEM- FROM THE DIFFERENT
PERIODS- BUT THE KEVIN STARR WAS
HIRED. TO B. B. I GUESS WHAT IS
IT WHAT IS GENERALLY THE PROJECT
MANAGER I THINK WE CALLED HIM
THE- SYSTEM INTEGRATION MANAGER
. SAM- AND BUT HE WAS HE WAS
WORKING FOR. ANOTHER COMPANY
THAT. MANAGE PROJECTS SO WHAT
WAS THE NAME OF HIS COMPANY I'M
SORRY I DON'T KNOW I CAN'T
REMEMBER IF THE TOP OF MY HEAD-
WE CAN GET YOU THAT CONTRACT.
ALONG WITH AUTHENTIC IT GOES
BACK TO THE- SAME QUESTIONS I
ASKED ORIGINALLY ABOUT
PERSPECTIVE WHERE THEIR
PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS IN THAT
CONTRACT WAS IT. TIME AND
MATERIALS CONTRACT FOR THIS ONE
AND THE OTHERS I UNDERSTAND YOU
MAY NOT HAVE ALL THE INFORMATION
HERE TODAY BUT I WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE THE COMMITTEE WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE THAT INFORMATION. ALL THE
VENDOR CONTRACTS THAT WERE.
IMPLEMENTED TO. FOR THE CALYX US
UPGRADE WE CAN GET YOU ALL THE
VENDOR CONTRACTS AND I CAN
EXPLAIN IN A TIMELINE WITH THOSE
CONTRACTS. WHEN THEY WERE HIRED
AND BY OKAY. BUT OFF HAND YOU
DON'T KNOW OF ANY OF THE OTHERS
OFF HAND THE NAMES OF THE OTHER
COMPANIES HAVE BEEN RETAINED I'M
SORRY IF I TRY TO REMEMBER THE
NAMES I THINK I WOULD GET THEM
WRONG. ALL THE NO PROBLEM THANK
YOU FOR GOING THROUGH THIS OR US
SECRETARY I WANT AGAIN THANK YOU
FOR YOUR PATIENCE AND- IN THESE
QUESTIONS BUT AS YOU CAN SELL.
YOU KNOW WE'RE ALL CONCERNED
THAT TOO WHEN YOU HAVE SOMETHING
THAT IS BROKEN DOWN AS WILL BE
ABLE TO WORK AS YOU KNOWLEDGE.
IT'S TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHY AS
WE LOOK FORWARD AND HOW WE'RE
GOING TO DO IT BETTER. BUT THAT
LOOKING BACK IS A REALLY
IMPORTANT PART OF TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT WERE THOSE
MISTAKES WHO'S IN CHARGE OF
CORRECTLY IDENTIFY. THOSE
WEAKNESSES- IN YOUR TESTIMONY WE
APPRECIATE THAT- AND THEN WE
JUST FINISH UP WITH THAT AND
THAT'S ANOTHER QUESTION- WHEN
YOU LOOK AT DIED. AT THIS ISSUE
OF TRANSPARENCY. THAT IS NOT A
NEW ISSUE FOR CALIFORNIA IT'S AN
ISSUE ACROSS OUR COUNTRY
CONSUME. THE PUBLIC'S RIGHTFULLY
DEMANDS TO KNOW. WHO'S TRYING TO
INFLUENCE OUR GOVERNMENT. WITH
THE LOBBYISTS WHO THE DONORS AND
THE LIKE. ARE THERE. STATES THAT
YOU THINK OF MODEL GOOD EXAMPLES
FOR FINANCE DISCLOSURE PORTALS
THAT AS YOU LOOK. AROUND THAT
THE COUNTRY THAT THAT WE SHOULD
LOOK TO HIS GOOD EXAMPLES OF
THIS BECAUSE- WE DON'T WANT TO.
HELP BUILD THAT FIRST MODEL
RIGHT IN THERE. WE ARE THE TECH.
CAPITAL OF THE WORLD AND SO YOU
DO WOULD YOU HAVE AN EXPECTATION
ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO DO GOOD.
TECHNOLOGY HERE IN OUR OWN STATE
BUT- IF YOU LOOKED AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND- WOULD YOU IDENTIFY
SOME STATES DO YOU THINK OF. OUR
DOING IT RIGHT. WE'VE BEGUN TO
DO THAT MORE RECENTLY. AND- YOU
KNOW. AND HONEST YOU KNOW.
COMING INTO OFFICE ONE IN BEING
KIND WITH THIS ISSUE AND- ALL
THE- THAT ARE THERE WELL AS
MONEY. PROBABLY A RECORD NUMBER
OF SPECIAL ELECTIONS IN THE-
TWENTY TWENTY ONE IN THE RECALL
ELECTION AND- AND THEN GOING
INTO THE GENERAL ELECTION- WITH
ALL THE ELECTION DENIERS AND
EVERYTHING ELSE WE'VE BEEN.
LAZILY FOCUSED ON THAT BUT THIS
IS NOT BY NO MEANS TO TAKEN A
BACKSEAT TO MY INTEREST.
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH I RECENTLY
COME ACROSS AND I HAVE BEEN
TALKING TO OUR SECRETARY OF
STATE IN COLORADO BECAUSE THEY
DO A LOT OF INNOVATIVE THINGS
AND WE'VE- WE'VE MODELED
OURSELVES AFTER THEM IN MANY
WAYS WITH THE CAR SELECTION SO.
I'LL BE TALKING WITH HER
CONCERNING IT BUT TO MY SURPRISE
SO WHAT WAS BROUGHT TO ME
RECENTLY WAS ARKANSAS. IOWA HAS
A VERY GOOD SYSTEM LIKE THIS.
THAT IS ABLE TO HANDLE MULTIPLE
THINGS AND RUNS QUITE WELL I'M
SHOCKED BECAUSE I'M FROM
ARKANSAS. AND I ALWAYS THINK OF
THAT IS NOT NECESSARILY BEING
THE MOST. FORWARD PLACE IN THE
WORLD VISIT SO I'VE- ACTUALLY
BEGAN TO INQUIRE IN ARKANSAS AND
HOPEFULLY WE'LL GET A CHANCE TO-
NOW THAT WE HAVE A BREAK TO
BASICALLY. TALK WITH THEM AND TO
VISIT ARKANSAS TO SEE. WHAT THE
SYSTEM LOOKS LIKE AS WELL AS
SOME OF THE OTHERS AS WE ARE
MEETING WITH. THE SECRETARIES OF
STATE ACROSS THE- THE NATION TO
FIND OUT WHAT OTHER. OF THE
SYSTEMS ARE WORKING WELL.
KNOWING THAT WERE LARGER THAN
THEY ARE AND THAT THAT MAY BE.
MORE DIFFICULT TO- TO HANDLE THE
AMOUNT THAT WE'RE DEALING WITH
THE NONE THE LESS YOU DON'T WANT
TO SEE WHAT THEY'VE DONE.
CALORIFIC THIS AT HOME TOWN
PRIDE YEAH WELL I'M NOT SURE
HOME TOWN PRIDE BUT- I DIDN'T
LEAVE IN THE BEST CONDITION AND
ARKANSAS WHAT LEFT A LOT OF
RELATIVES THE OF THE- BUT- BUT
DEFINITELY OF WAS SURPRISED TO
LEARN THAT THERE PROPERLY. ALL
HAVE A SYSTEM THAT WORKS IS A
SMALL STATE. BUT NONE THE LESS
SO MAYBE THINGS WE CAN LEARN
FROM IT. BUT I THINK WHAT YOU
KNOW GIVEN THE THOSE THAT ARE
WORKING ON THE PROJECT NOT I
HAVE TO SAY THIS AND REAL PROUD
OF THEM BECAUSE- MOST OF THEM OF
HAVE BEEN WITH THE PROJECT FOR A
WHILE NOW AND MY GOAL IS TO TRY
TO KEEP THESE PEOPLE WORKING ON
THE PROJECT. I THINK ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES OFTENTIMES AT THE
STATE LEVEL IS THAT WE HAVE
PEOPLE MOVING IN AND OUT SO
QUICKLY. THAT SAYS AS YOU CAN
SEE FROM SOME OF THE HISTORY OF
WHAT. WAS IN THE PROJECT A LOT
OF THOSE FOLKS ARE GONE. YOU
KNOW- WHEN THE PROJECT DIDN'T
WORK WHATEVER IT IS THEY PACKED
UP THEY'VE GONE. AS WELL WITH
THEIR IN HOUSE OR WHETHER THEY
WERE OTHERS HAVE MOVED ON. I
WANT TO TRY TO KEEP THE TEAM
TOGETHER BECAUSE THAT PROVIDES A
CONSISTENCY. WHAT WE WANT TO DO
AS WELL AS THE ACCOUNTABILITY.
AS TO WHO'S RESPONSIBLE FOR
DOING THIS PROJECT IN GETTING
THIS PROJECT ACCOMPLISHED MUCH
MORE THAN JUST A SECRETARY. AND
SO- WELL I'M I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THE FACT THAT THIS TEAM IS TAKEN
ON THE CHALLENGE. OF TO COMPLETE
THIS PROJECT AND HAVE PRIDE IN
MAKING SURE THAT IT DOES HAPPEN.
SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN THERE
DOING THIS. THE CONFUSION. OF
WHO'S IN CHARGE WHO'S NOT IN
CHARGE. WHO'S IN. DIRECT I MEAN
I HAD. DIFFICULTY FIGURING. IN
THE STREET. PERIOD OF TIME. I
HAD. TO A DECISION. GO OR NO-GO
ON THIS PROJECT BECAUSE IT WAS
A- VERY SHORT TIME FRAME THAT WE
HAD TO MAKE A DECISION BECAUSE
ALL THE PUBLICITY. WAS SAYING
COME JUNE THIRTIETH THIS IS
GOING TO HAPPEN. AND WE HAVE
PROBABLY A MONTH A MONTH AND A
HALF TO REALLY REALIZE THAT THIS
WAS THAT WILL PROBLEMS THAT
WOULD BE A- AND THEN OF COURSE
TRYING TO MEMORIZE ALL THE NAMES
AND ALL THE PEOPLE AND- AS SHE
MENTIONED THE MOST CAN REMEMBER
SOME OF THE NAMES IN THE
PROGRAMS. THERE WERE SO MANY
OVERLAPPING. FOLKS COMING IN TO
TRY TO MAKE THIS THING WORK.
THAT IT JUST GOT. YOU KNOW YOU
KNOW WHO'S IN CHARGE OF THE
CONVOLUTED NATURE OF IT. THE
VARIOUS CONTRACTS AND THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS- ONCE WE DECIDED
TO STOP THE PROJECT THEN WE
BEGIN TO LOOK AT THE CONTRACTS
THAT WERE IN PLACE IN THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS THAT WITH THEIR-
WOULD. WE HOPE TO PREVENT ALL OF
THAT THIS TIME IN TERM BEING
MUCH MORE DELIBERATE. IN TRYING
TO GET THE PROJECT DONE I THINK
THE TIME FRAME. PUSH PEOPLE. TO
DO THINGS THAT THEY MAY WOULD
HAVE DONE BUT MAY NOT HAVE DONE
AS A RESULT OF HAVING LIMITED
TIME. RIGHT THANK YOU SECRETARY
CENTER COMMUNITY OF ANY FOLLOW
UP QUESTIONS. DO A COUPLE SO. IF
YOU KNOW SURGERY AGAIN. YOU FOR
YOUR TESTIMONY TO HIM SURE THIS
IS NOT YOUR FIRST CHOICE ON.
BEFORE AFTER THAT SHE- SO- YOU
KNOW TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT.
RESPONSE AND ASSIGNMENTS IS
THERE IS THERE AN OR- CHART I
MEAN I KNOW. KNOW CHEERS FOR
SOME DOCUMENTS IT IS THE AN OR
CHART. SHOWS WHO DOES WHAT
PARTICULARS RELATES TO. THESE
KINDS OF TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS AT
THE SECRETARY OF STATE. THERE IS
A MALE AND WE CAN GET YOU THAT
INFORMATION- THERE'S WE'VE BEEN
BE DOING THE ORG CHART FOR THE
WHOLE ORGANIZATION BECAUSE I.
REALLY BELIEVE PEOPLE SHOULD BE
RESPONSIBLE. THAT IS IT SO YOU
KNOW IT'S I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
NOTE THAT THIS IS ONE OF MANY. A
RESPONSIBILITIES HAVE BECOME
VERY DATA INTENSIVE DIDN'T IN
THIS OFFICE- IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
IT AND HISTORICALLY YOU KNOW.
THERE'S BEEN AN EVOLUTION RIGHT
THAT THERE USED TO BE BUDGET
CABINETS WITH. PAPERS AND YOU
CAN LOOK HIM UP- AND THE
TRANSITION TO A DIGITAL
PAPERLESS KIND OF DATABASE
SYSTEMS- SEE VERY CHALLENGING.
SHE GIVEN THAT THE SIZE AND
SCOPE OF THE STATE YOUR
RESPONSIBILITIES. IT'S SO. EIGHT
YOU KNOW IT RELATES TO THIS
RIGHT SO WE'VE TALKED ABOUT SORT
OF FUTURE PLANS BUT BUT- I AM
WANTING TO DIE HERE CONSTANTLY
FROM OTHERS ABOUT CHALLENGES.
WITH ACCESSING THE SYSTEM RIGHT
INCIDENTS OR A YOU KNOW I
PROBABLY POINT OUT THAT FOR THE-
AVERAGE USER THERE THERE THERE
THEY MAKE NO DISTINCTION.
BETWEEN IT RIGHT INTERRUPTION.
AND AN OUTAGE. AND YOU KNOW THE
BILL'S GOING TO DETER RUSSIA IT
IS NOT UNCOMMON TO TRY LOOK FOR
DATA. COLLECTION OF ASIANS WHO.
JOINED I UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT
YOUR INTERVIEW TO DO LONG TERM
WHAT IF ANYTHING CAN BE DONE.
YOU KNOW WITHIN BUDGET WITHIN
RESOURCES- AS AN INTERIM
SOLUTION TO MINIMIZE THESE
OUTAGES I SEE MR CORMIER'S
SHAKING HIS HEAD RIGHT NATURE
SEEMS TO BE BY YOUR FACIAL.
EXPRESSION BUT NOTHING- BUT- IF
YOU WOULDN'T MIND. YEAH IF THERE
IS. I WANT TO PUT MY LEGS. ON
AND I GOT MY LEAD THE TO BE A
NEAR BEHIND HERE. IN THERE'S A
COUPLE THINGS WE WANT TO DO THAT
A GREAT. IS SO- YOU KNOW. A LOT
OF WE LOOK AT BECAUSE THE CODE
IS VERY YOU KNOW OLD WE CAN'T
CHANGE IT. A LOT OF STUFF WE
DURING THE WEEK WHAT CALL PROOF
OF CONCEPT WE HAVE TO TRY IT OUT
FIRST TO SEE IF IT'S GOING TO
WORK. SO A LOT OF THESE GUYS THE
SMART GUYS ARE NOT TALKING RIGHT
NOW OUR BEHIND THE SCENES ARE
LOOKING AT- VIRTUALISATION. IF
IT'S APPLICABLE WE'RE LOOKING
AT- YOU KNOW- MOVING THE ORACLE
DATABASE WHICH WHICH IS THE
BIGGEST PROBLEM WE SEEN OVER THE
LAST. YEAR TO NEW HARDWARE. IN
THE TYPOLOGIES YOU GUYS HAVE.
NOW IS DIFFERENT SO WITH MOVING
THAT- THE DATABASE TO. TMS THE
TYPE OUTAGES WE HAVE BECOME
REALLY QUICKLY. BEFORE WE DAY
AND IF YOU WOULD LIKE WE SHOULD
RECOVER QUICKLY SO THE DS
ARTICLE IT'S- ORGANICALLY THE
SYSTEM PREPARES ITSELF. NO NO SO
WHAT I WHAT I NEED. IS THE
DATABASE IS STILL UP BUT OTHER
WEB COMPONENTS IS OUR SERVICES
ARE DOWN. ALL THEY NEED TO BE
DONE IS RESTARTED. BUT WHEN THE
DATABASE IS NOT. WORKING ARE NOT
FUNCTIONING. THAT IS A LONGER
PROCESS. IS SINCE WE MOVED IT TO
TMS THE DATABASE'S BEEN ALMOST
ARE PERCENT ROCKS. WHAT BROUGHT
SALAS SO THAT MEANS A LOT OF
OUTAGES WE HAVE FOUR DIFFERENT
TYPOLOGIES. MAYBE COMPARED TO
YEARS AGO. I'M ONLY JUST
GUESSING THAT BECAUSE WE MOVED
IT WE SEE THAT IMPROVEMENT SO
THE TYPE ALLERGIST WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW ARE SICK IT SIGNIFICANTLY.
LESS THE- INTERRUPTION TIME AS
PROBABLY BEFORE MAYBE TWO OR
THREE YEARS AGO. SO WE'RE
CONTINUES LOOKING AT DIFFERENT
WAYS WITHOUT MISS OF THE CODE
WITHOUT TAKING NOW. KALANK SAYS
ALSO WE JUST BRAINSTORM SO
THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS WE'RE
LOOKING AT BUT AGAIN THIS IS OFF
OF A CONCEPT BECAUSE IS NOT
SUPPORTED CODES. NO ONE WANTS TO
TOUCH YOU KNOW VENDOR WANTS TO
TOUCH IT- SO WE HAVE TO REALLY
HAVE TO THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX
WHEN IT COMES TO THAT. I JUST
GOT MORE COURSES SO IT'S ALWAYS
WITH YOU KNOW AT SOME POINT.
THERE'S AN ALERT RIGHT ANY ANY
FIXED YOU SORT OF- BALLOT HOW
MANY THERE ARE AN AVERAGE. MONTH
BUT BUT THAT REQUIRES SOME LEVEL
OF HUMAN INTERVENTION ON POINTS
OVER TO WATCH. IS IT. TWENTY
FOUR SEVEN SUPPORT WHAT WHAT
LEVEL SUPPORT JIM LIKE WITH YOU
YOU KNOW. WE IF IT'S DURING A
WORKDAY. SOMEBODY'S THERE BUT GO
ON WE CAN NIGHT YEAH BUT WHAT
HAPPENED- GIVEN EGGS. IF WE HAVE
AN- AT O'CLOCK- IN THE MORNING
WITH A THE SYSTEM UP WE HAVE
SOMEBODY SAY HEY. IT'S HAVEN'T
THE CHANNEL CONSUME REBOOT THE
SIR. BECAUSE IT HASN'T. WE HAVE
SOMEBODY THAT THE THAT NOW GO IN
EVERYBODY'S. IT IS OUR BEST
EFFORTS FOR FOUR BY. THE MON.
CAN GIVES US REAL TIME ACCESS TO
SEE WHEN THE SYSTEM IS DOWN OR
NOT RESPONDING. AND IN A COUPLE
OF TIMES WE HAVE TO INTERACT
WITH THAT. BUT YES WE HAVE
PEOPLE WHO ARE. CONSTANTLY DEAL.
GETTING THESE ALERTS IN ASKING
OTHER MEMBERS. OF THE TEAM. TO
RESTORE SERVICE TO MAKE IT BACK
UP SO IT'S A VERY MANUAL PROCESS
IS NOT AUTOMATED. AND I. T. LIKE
AUTOMATION- WE TO THE LIKE THAT
BUT- WITH THE SYSTEM. ARE HIS
RETIRED BE ON THE BACK WE REALLY
CAN'T DO AUTOMATION SO IS A VERY
MANUAL PROCESS WE DO. THIS IS
THE BEST EFFORT AND AS WE GROW
AS I. T. WE HAVE MORE REESE'S WE
WORE RESOURCE. RESOURCES COMING
ON. THAT CAN HELP FACILITATE.
THESE CHANGES. SO IT'S NOT
UNLIKELY THAT THAT A MEMBER OF
THE PUBLIC OR- SOMEBODY AT THE
FCC AND ACCESS THE SYSTEM MIGHT
BE THE FIRST PERSON. TO DISCOVER
THAT THERE IS AN OUTAGE OR A
DIRECT DATA INTERRUPTIONS SO IS
THERE A FACILITY FOR. THE PUBLIC
TO ALERT. YOUR STAFF YOUR TECH
TEAM. THAT THAT THERE'S A
PROBLEM WITH THE SYSTEM THAT
THEY'RE NOT. I WOULD SAY THAT WE
WILL PROPERTY NO FOR EXAMPLE IF
A PERSON I GIVE YOU. HAVE YOU
KNOW HYPOTHETICAL- REALISTIC. IF
WE'RE- ON READ. THIS I BECAUSE-
MIGHT TWENTY. IT IT IS
TEMPORARILY AVAILABLE. AND BY
THE TIME THEY REACH OUT TO US
IT'S ALREADY RES RESOLVE
RECOVERY IT'S- RESTORED. WE SEE
THE SYSTEM- IS A LOT OF. PEOPLE
YOUR QUESTION WAS IT THERE'S A
MECHANISM FOR CONTACTING I DON'T
THINK THERE IS A TO A MECHANISM
TO CONTACT US. BUT WE ARE
ALERTED. ON THE SYSTEM. AND MOST
LIKELY IF IT THERE'S
INTERRUPTION MOST LIKELY- IS
BEING REBOOTED SO THERE'S A
CHANCE THAT CUSTOMERS LIKE HEY I
CANNOT GET TO THIS WEBPAGE OF
CALLIXTUS. IN IN TWO MINUTES
LATER ALL IT'S UP YOUR PROJECTS
ARE MOST LIKELY CHAU SURVIVES
DECISION I CAN'T GET A RESULT.
IT IS MOST LIKELY THAT
SOMEBODY'S AWARE OF THE PROBLEM
AND CORRECT PROBLEMS BUT IT'S
NOT. GUARANTEED IT'S- IT'S NOT
YOURS OKAY YEAH. OKAY SO GETTING
BACK ON THE LARGER QUESTIONS
ISN'T. LOOKING FORWARD IF WE
STIPULATE THAT. TWENTY FOUR
THIRTY SIX MONTHS FROM NOW YOU
HAVE A YOU KNOW A NEW SYSTEM IN
PLACE. BATTLE TESTED. WHAT CAN
WE DO IN THE- RIGHT MINUTES ON
THAT LONG INTERVAL- FOR PEOPLE
TO HAVE CHALLENGES ACCESSING. IT
WHICH SHOULD BE VERY TRANSPARENT
INFORMATION YEAH SO AGAIN YOU'RE
A YEAR I THINK THAT THE THING
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS FIRST OF
ALL BECAUSE SURE THAT WE HAVE
RELIABILITY ON IT IF SOMETHING
GOES DOWN. AGAIN TRYING TO TEST
OUT- SOME OF THE- PROOF OF
CONCEPT WE HAVE WAS YOU KNOW
BREAK UPS DIFFERENT SERVICES-
INTO THEIR OWN ENTITIES- BUT I
MEAN BY THAT IS JUST KIND OF
LOOKING OUT OF CODY IS. IT SEE
WHAT WE CAN DO AS FAR AS
RESOURCES. THAT'S OUR BIGGEST
THING RIGHT NOW SO AGAIN WE HAVE
TO TRY OUT- WE HAVE A COUPLE
THINGS HE'LL WITH THAT WE WERE
TRYING TO FUTURE. TO SEE IF WE
CAN ENHANCE IT- THE STABILITY IT
OUT. YOU KNOW FOR US IS THE
RECOVERY TIME IS THAT WHERE
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE ALLERGIST I
MEAN THIS IS THE SYSTEM IT IS.
BUT WE TRY TO DO IS HAVE AS
MINIMAL AS POSSIBLE- THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT ONE I KEEP GOING
BACK TO THE BECAUSE HE'S A WAS
THAT WE REALLY HAVE NO CONTROL
OVER AT THIS POINT. IS REALLY
TRYING TO COME UP WITH A SECOND
PASSED- TO THE DATABASE IF THAT
PATH GOES DOWN I BELIEVE THAT
THE NUMBER OF OUTAGES AS FAR AS
HOW LONGER OUT. WILL BE
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED SO WE GET
A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO- MAY NOT
CALL IN BECAUSE THE SYSTEM HAS
BEEN DOWN FOR OVER TWENTY FOUR
HOURS. THAT'S JUST MY OPINION MY
OBSERVATION. NO PROJECT THANK.
THANK YOU. FOR RIFIC THANK YOU-
CENTER AS- WILL. THANK YOU FOR
TAKING TIME JUST. WITH US. AND
AT ALL THAT'S THE LEADERSHIP.
AND FRUSTRATIONS THAT COME WITH
THE JOB THAT YOU HAVE. BEEN
APPOINTED TO. QUITE
APPROPRIATELY- WE'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO MAKE IT ONE THING I
JUST WANT. TO SAY THANK YOU FOR
YOUR HONESTY RIGHT FOR YOUR
CANDOR IN THIS I MEAN THAT IS.
REFRESHING WHEN IT COMES TO
THESE THINGS ASSEMBLY ACTUALLY.
SET UP YOUR TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
DO YOU KNOW IT MEANT WHAT NEEDS
FIXING AND- AND POSTED PICTURES
OF HIGH PRESSURE BALBOA MAMA
SAID IF YOU TELL A LIE YOU HAVE
TO PUT LEGS ON A TO MAKE A STAND
UP SO IT'S A CONSTANT JOB TO
KEEP ALIVE LIVE. A DETAILED- SO
THAT'S WAS SAYING OVER AND OVER.
THAT'S ARKANSAS. ARKANSAS STUFF
YOU KNOW. YOUR ATTENTION. RUN
THANK YOU GUYS FOR HAVING US I
MEAN I APPRECIATE IT IT'S BEEN
IT'S BEEN A JOURNEY I CAN TELL
YOU THAT IT'S BEEN A JOURNEY-
BUT I THINK. THIS TEAM HAS IS SO
COMMITTED TO MAKING THIS WORK I
MEAN. THE FACT THAT THERE TWENTY
FOUR SEVEN IS REALLY TRUE BY THE
TIME I HEAR ABOUT ANYTHING IT'S
BEEN DONE. AND THEY'RE ON IT
TWENTY FOUR SEVEN- THEY'RE
INCREASING THEIR TEAM BECAUSE- I
ASKED THEM I SAID YOU HAVE TO
KEEP THIS THING ALIVE AND
THEY'VE- THEY'VE TAKEN IT ON
THEY'VE NEVER BEEN ASKED TO DO
THAT BEFORE. AND SO THE TAKING
IT ON AND LOOKING AT NEW WAYS TO
STORE THE DATA TO. WORKING WITH
THE INTERNET ALL THESE KINDS OF
THINGS THAT THEY COME TO ME AND
SHOW ME THESE. PROJECTS THAT
THEY HAVE DISCOVERED WILL WORK
TO KEEP THIS THING ALIVE AND
THAT IS AS REASSURING AS WELL AS
I'M WORKING. ON THE NEW PROJECT
ITSELF THANK YOU THANK YOU VERY
MUCH AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO
MAYBE AN UPDATE. IN THE COMING
YEAR SO WE HOPE TO BE ABLE TO
GIVE YOU THAT GOOD OF. AFFECT
THANK YOU THANKS THANKS ALL
RIGHT. I KNOW WE RUN A LITTLE
LONG THERE AND WE APPRECIATE THE
PATIENCE OF OUR WITNESSES TO
COME BY AND ASK THEM TO.
CONSOLIDATE THEIR TESTIMONY I
WANT TO INVITE OUT THAT DAY-
MISTER BRIAN- METZGER FROM- THE
LEGISLATIVE ANALYST'S OFFICE.
THE COME JOIN US- AND- ADULT.
THE P. D. ON THE STAY BUT YOUR
STAFF TO. WELCOME AND LISTEN IN
BUT- IT'S UP TO YOU. AB DE. OKAY
THE INVITE BRIAN TO COME. AND
BRIGHT AS YOU'RE COMING UP. I
KNOW YOU HAD A PRESENT. HERE A
LOT OF THE DATA. THAT HAS TO.
STUFF AUSTIN COVERED. AND SO I
WILL WOULD LIKE YOU TO FILL. IN
ON- SOME OF THE QUESTIONS YOU'VE
HEARD US TALK ABOUT COME ON UP.
I THINK ARE YOU WITH I WITH THE
TABLE OR THAT IS OVER THERE
OKAY- I. WE WE'VE BEEN BAD WE'VE
BENEFITED FROM YOUR PRESENTATION
WE'VE ALL REVIEWED- SERVES AS
THE HISTORY. BUT MAYBE IF YOU
WANT TO SUMMARIZE THAT YOU CAN.
BUT REALLY WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD
WHAT LESSONS DID YOU THINK WE'VE
LEARNED. WHAT TO DO HERE TODAY-
THAT DATED THAT WORRIES YOU OR
INSPIRES YOU. AND GOING FORWARD
I KNOW THAT THERE'S A- A ROAD
MAP WHICH YOU'VE IDENTIFIED.
WHAT IS IT ABOUT THAT ROAD MAP
THAT HAS YOU. AS YOU'RE AT YEARS
AND EYES THAT HAD ATTENTION AND
OURS AS WELL THAT THAT'S WHERE
IF WE COULD MAYBE JUMP OFF TO
THAT SPACE. IF IT'S OKAY WITH
YOU SURE ABSOLUTELY BRIAN
METZGER AT THE LEGISLATIVE
ANALYST'S OFFICE THANKS FOR
INVITING. US TO TESTIFY TODAY-
YOU KNOW I THINK IT WOULD BE. IN
TO COVER A LITTLE BIT OF THE
PROJECT HISTORY AND WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT PERSPECTIVE WE TALKED
ABOUT- SASS- JUST TO GIVE A
LITTLE BIT OF PERSPECTIVE ABOUT
THE PROJECT ASSESSMENT. I THINK
IT INFORMS WHAT LESSONS WE CAN
LEARN- AND WHAT THE PATH FORWARD
IS FOR THIS PROJECT- ONE THING
THAT WAS MENTIONED IS YOU KNOW
THERE WERE A NUMBER OF FLAWS
WITH THE INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION
OF THIS PROJECT SOME OF WHICH
HAVE BEEN MENTIONED BUT I JUST
WANT TO RUN THROUGH THEM BECAUSE
I THINK IT'S INSTRUCTIVE FOR THE
NEXT. STEPS ON THIS PROJECT- ONE
OF THEM WAS FLAWED TESTING
ACTIVITIES SOME OF THE STAFF
DIDN'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THEY
WERE TESTING OR WERE NOT
PREPARED TO TEST THAT SYSTEM
THAT WAS BEING DEVELOPED- THERE
WAS A RELUCTANCE TO ACCEPT
INVALID RISKS. TO THE PROJECT'S
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES THAT WERE
ACTUALLY RAISED BY INTERNAL
STAKEHOLDERS WITHIN SOS. AND
THEN SYSTEM COMPONENTS THAT WERE
BEING DEVELOPED WERE SO TIGHTLY
COUPLED WITH THE BUSINESS RULES.
THAT ARE REQUIRED TO ACTUALLY
RUN THE SYSTEM THAT WHEN YOU
NEEDED TO MAKE A CHANGE IN
BUSINESS RULES. IT WOULD
ACTUALLY REQUIRE CHANGES ACROSS
THE ENTIRE SYSTEM. AND SO THERE
WAS NO SEPARATE BUSINESS RULES
ENGINE THAT CAN ACTUALLY BE
UPDATED BASED ON LEGISLATION OR
OTHER CHANGES. THAT WERE MADE- I
THINK THE PATH FORWARD HAS
ALREADY BEEN MENTIONED THERE IS
A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNOLOGY. AND THE SECRETARY OF
STATE'S OFFICE TO VOLUNTARILY
SUBMIT THIS PROJECT THROUGH THE
PROJECT APPROVAL LIFECYCLE- THE-
STAGE ONE DOCUMENTATION WHICH IS
THE BUSINESS ANALYSIS WHICH
PROVIDES THE BUSINESS GOALS FOR
THE PROJECT. HAS ALREADY BEEN
APPROVED. AND NOW THE PROJECT IS
WORKING ON A STAGE TO
DOCUMENTATION AND THAT WILL GIVE
US THE- PRELIMINARY BASELINE
COST SCHEDULE AND SCOPE FOR THE
PROJECT GOING FORWARD- THE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE IS
EXPECTING THAT TO BE AVAILABLE
SPRING OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
ALONG WITH WHATEVER BUDGET
REQUEST IS GOING TO BE NECESSARY
TO GO INTO TWENTY TWENTY THREE
TWENTY FOUR- I THINK. ONE OF THE
LESSONS LEARNED THAT. IT IS
EVIDENT FROM READING THE PROJECT
ASSESSMENT AND LOOKING AT THE
PROJECT ROAD MAP. IS THAT AS THE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE
MENTIONED. WORKING WITH THE
SYSTEM INTEGRATOR VENDOR. IS
VERY IMPORTANT. BUT THE ULTIMATE
AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
RESTS WITH THE SECRETARY OF
STATE'S OFFICE. THAT THEY NEED
TO BE INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
THEY NEED TO BE WORKING
ALONGSIDE THE VENDOR. BUT THEY
ULTIMATELY NEED TO BE. INVOLVED
IN MAKING SURE THEY'RE ASSESSING
RISK AND MITIGATING THOSE RISKS
AS THE PROJECT CONTINUES- WE'VE
ALSO SEEN FROM THE PROJECT
ROADMAP THAT WAS SUBMITTED AS
PART OF THE PROJECT ASSESSMENT-
INITIAL PROJECT COST- THAT THEY
ESTIMATE- WOULD WOULD BE
REASONABLE FOR THIS PROJECT IN.
THE RANGE OF FIFTY MILLION
DOLLARS- AND- DO YOU KNOW
DEVELOPMENT TIMELINE OF
APPROXIMATELY TWELVE AND TWENTY
SEVEN MONTHS- SO IT WERE WE TO
ASSUME THAT YOU KNOW GIVEN WHAT
THE PROJECT APPROVAL LIFECYCLE
LOOKS LIKE RIGHT NOW WHICH IS
SUPPOSED TO END IN SPRING OF
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR. THIS PROJECT
COULD BE FINISHED- IN SOMETIME
JUNE TWENTY TWENTY SIX SO THAT'S
THE KIND OF TIME LINE WE'RE
LOOKING OUT FOR THIS PROJECT.
AND HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE- YOU
YOU HEARD THANK YOU THANK YOU
FOR THAT AGAIN FOR THE BROADER
REVIEW THAT WE FELL READ AND
SEEN THAT YOU WERE KIND ENOUGH
NOT TO GO THROUGH WITH US NOW
BUT- YOU KNOW WE HEARD. ABOUT
THE CONTRACTS THAT WERE OFFERED
UP SOME OF THEM WERE DISCLOSED
TODAY. THIS IS A CONTRACT WITH
PERSPECTIVE WITH THE-
DELIVERABLES. THAT HAVE ARGUED
WERE PART OF THAT CONTRACT HAVE
YOU SEEN THAT CONTRACT I HAVE
NOT. OKAY AND OBVIOUSLY YOU
WOULD SUPPORT THE IDEA OF A
CONTRACT BASED ON DELIVERABLES.
YES AVERS THAT TIME THE
MATERIALS CONTRACT- SO DAY IF
YOU LOOK BACKWARDS NOW IN STABLE
WHERE DID WE GO WRONG IT WAS
PROJECTED ELEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
IN TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN AND NOT
BE FOUND A FLY IN THOSE
PROJECTIONS AT THAT TIME. WHAT
WHAT WHAT WHAT WHAT DID WE WHAT
DID WE MESS TO HAVE ALL THESE
YEARS GO BY WE'RE SITTING HERE
TODAY. REALLY FRUSTRATED
SECRETARY IS WE ARE ALL- NOW THE
COSTS OF THE- QUADRUPLED OR
GREATER. WHAT WHAT WHAT. WHAT
SHOULD WE HAVE LEARNED FROM THAT
I MEAN SHOULD WE TO THE
LEGISLATURE BE MORE ATTENTIVE TO
THOSE CONTRACTS WHEN THEY'RE-
WHEN THEY'RE ISSUED- SHOULD WE
HAVE REVIEWS OF THOSE CONTRACTS
OF. OF SUCH SIGNIFICANCE. SO WE
JUST DON'T LET THEM RUN ITS
COURSE AND THEN FIND OUT YEARS
LATER THAT. MISTAKES WERE MADE.
IS THERE ANY LESSONS THERE. YEAH
I THINK THE LESSON LEARNED FROM
THE INITIAL CONTRACT WAS THAT.
PERSPECTIVE WAS TRYING TO
IMPLEMENT A COMMERCIAL OFF THE
SHELF SOLUTION. FOR SOMETHING
THAT HAS REALLY COMPLEX
REQUIREMENTS AND SO WHEN YOU'RE
TRYING TO JUST TAKE SOFTWARE
YOU'VE DEVELOPED AND PUT IT IN
AND ASSUME THAT IT'S GOING TO
WORK PROPERLY FOR SOMETHING AS
COMPLEX. AS DISCLOSURE CAMPAIGN
DISCLOSURE AND YOU KNOW LOVING
STATEMENTS. IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
GOING TO WORK IF YOU DON'T
REALLY TAKE INTO ACCOUNT HOW
MUCH CUSTOMISATION NEEDS TO BE
DONE. AND SO I THINK THAT OVER
THE YEARS THE FOUR YEARS THAT
PERSPECTIVE WAS THE VENDOR. THAT
REALLY WASN'T UNDERSTOOD UNTIL
THE END WHEN IT WAS TOO LATE TO
ACTUALLY ADDRESS- AND WITH- SAYS
IT WAS JUST SUCH A CONDENSED
TIMELINE YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT
EIGHT MONTHS TO A YEAR TO
IMPLEMENT SOMETHING THAT. OVER
FOUR YEARS CONNECT EVEN BE
IMPLEMENTED. AND SO THERE WAS
JUST NOT ENOUGH TIME AND THEY
REALLY DID NOT UNDERSTAND ALL
THOSE COMPLEX REQUIREMENTS UP
FRONT. SO THE UNDER BID AND OVER
PROMISED. I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK
FORWARD ABOUT KIND OF THE.
FORTIN UNDERSTANDING HOW THE
PROCUREMENT WAS DONE. RIGHT
MAKING SURE THAT THE PROCUREMENT
WAS DONE COMPETITIVELY THAT
THERE WERE MULTIPLE BETTER IS
THAT THERE WAS. YOU KNOW IN IN
SOME CASES PROOFS OF CONCEPT AS
PART OF THE PROCUREMENT SO YOU
CAN TEST WHETHER THERE ARE THE
CREEK SCENARIOS THAT ARE GOING
TO BE. ADDRESSED BY THE SOLUTION
THAT YOU'RE TRYING TO PROCURE-
AND THAT IS SOMETHING THAT IS
BEING DONE MORE ROUTINELY WITH
TODAY'S IT PROJECTS AS OPPOSED
TO FOUR FIVE YEARS AGO. BUT
CERTAINLY I THINK. WATCHING THE
PROCUREMENT MAKING SURE YOU
UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT VENDORS
ARE PARTICIPATING AND ASKING FOR
INFORMATION ABOUT THOSE
CONTRACTS WHETHER THEY'RE FIXED
YOU KNOW- PRICE. CONTRACTS WITH
DELIVERABLES AND KIND OF NEGATED
REVIEWS THOSE ARE ALL IMPORTANT
THINGS TO ASK- AS YOU GO THROUGH
EVEN THE BUDGET PROCESS YOU'RE
LOOKING AT KIND OF THE NEXT.
YEAR'S APPROPRIATIONS RIGHT
OKAY. THANK YOU SENATOR MANY
QUESTIONS. YEAH GOOD KIND OF
COMES BACK TO A QUESTION I ASKED
OF THE OF THE SECTOR. WHO YOU
KNOW WHAT IT WE LEARNED. HOW TO
GET THROUGH. TO YOU KNOW THAT
THAT END DATE. FOR THE NEXT
IMPLEMENTATION. AND PRIME MORE
POORLY OUT OF HOW DO WE PREVENT
THIS IMAGE IMMIGRATION RICHARD
QUESTION THAT CONTRACTS BUT MORE
AND MORE GENERALLY. FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE IT NGUYEN WHAT
WHAT'S THE BIG LESSON HERE THAT
WE AS- LEGISLATORS MIGHT APPLY
EITHER LEGISLATIVELY OR THROUGH
OVERSIGHT. I THINK ONE OF BIG
LESSONS IS THAT. USING THE
STATE'S IT PROJECT APPROVAL
PROCESS SEES IS IMPORTANT. I
THINK ONE OF THE ISSUES WAS THAT
THERE WAS AN EXEMPTION IN THE
BILL. THAT WAS INTENDED TO
EXPEDITE THE DEVELOPMENT
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SYSTEM. I
THINK THE PROJECT APPROVAL LIFE
CYCLE THAT THE PROJECT IS GOING
THROUGH NOW IS A ROBUST PROCESS
INVOLVES MULTIPLE STAKEHOLDERS-
THE LEGISLATURE GETS
DOCUMENTATION AT EVERY STAGE OF
THE PROCESS SO WE CAN REVIEW
THOSE. YOU CAN UNDERSTAND WHAT
IS BEING ASSUMED. YOU KNOW WHAT
PROCUREMENT IS BEING USED WHAT
ARE THE REQUIREMENTS WHAT ARE
THE OBJECTIVES IT'S ALL THERE IN
WRITING AND IT CAN BE REVIEWED.
I THINK THE EXEMPTIONS BECAUSE
OF A LACK OF TRANSPARENCY ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON AS THE PROJECTS
BEING PLANNED- I THINK LESSONS
LEARNED IT'S REALLY
UNDERSTANDING THOSE COMPLEX
BUSINESS. REQUIREMENTS AND
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS UP FRONT.
AND MAKING SURE THAT THE VENDORS
ARE AWARE OF THAT AND BEING
HONEST ABOUT ANY OF THE
POTENTIAL ROADBLOCKS. THAT COULD
BE FACED AS THEY DEVELOP THE
SYSTEM I THINK THERE'S TOO MUCH
OPTIMISM OFTENTIMES WITH VENDORS
THAT THEY CAN GET THINGS DONE.
ON SCHEDULE AND WITHIN BUDGET- I
THINK HAVING A CLEAR
UNDERSTANDING OF. WHAT THE
CONTINGENCY REALLY WHAT OUR
CONTINGENCY PLANS WHAT IS A ROLL
BACK PLAN IT JUST DOESN'T GO
ACCORDING TO PLAN- YOU KNOW AND
WHAT WHAT KIND OF COST OVER RUNS
UP CAN BE A DISSIPATE. I THINK
THOSE ARE ALL OF THE LESSONS
LEARNED FROM THIS LAST ITERATION
AND MY LAST QUESTION SO DID YOU
FEEL LIKE. MISS MR THAT THAT AT
THIS POINT. EIGHT YOU KNOW GET
TO MY QUESTION OR- BUT MORE CHEN
THAT THE YOU HAVE. ANOTHER THIS
. INTO THIS PER. IS VICIOUS
RELAY TO RESP- IN PROGRESS AT
THIS POINT THAT YOU'D FEEL
COMFORTABLE AT THIS POINT I
WOULD SAY THAT THE SECRETARY OF
STATE'S OFFICE HAS BEEN VERY
HELPFUL IN HELPING US UNDERSTAND
WHERE THEY ARE WITH THE PROJECT
CURRENTLY YOU'VE MET WITH THEM
SEVERAL TIMES- I WOULD ALSO SAY
THAT WE HAVE. DISCUSSIONS WITH
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNOLOGY ABOUT
KIND OF THEIR ROLE IN THIS
PROCESS AND OUR UNDERSTANDING OF
KIND OF WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO
OFFER AS A PLAN THIS PROJECT-
HAS BEEN HELPFUL. I THINK IT'S
VERY EARLY ON IN THE PLANNING
STAGES TO BE HONEST- WE'RE ONLY
IN STAGE ONE WE HAVE THE
BUSINESS SCHOOLS A LOT OF THE
STUFF THAT'S REUSABLE HAS BEEN
PUT INTO THAT. WE NEED TO REALLY
SEE THAT PRELIMINARY COST
SCHEDULE AND SCOPE. AND THAT'S
PART OF THAT STAGE YOU
DOCUMENTATION WE NEED TO SEE THE
MARKET RESEARCH. WE NEED TO KIND
OF GET AN UNDERSTANDING OF KIND
OF WHAT SOLUTIONS WERE
CONSIDERED. AND REALLY HAVE A
FIRM UNDERSTANDING THAT ALL
OPTIONS WERE CONSIDERED. AND I
THINK THAT WILL COME IN SPRING
IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND WILL
CERTAINLY BE THERE TO LOOK AT
IT. THANK YOU THANK YOU THE IN
THE SEMESTER I JUST WANT TO.
NOTE THE IRONY OF THE- PROVISION
IN THAT TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN
LEGISLATION THAT WAS MEANT TO
EXPEDITE- THE SYSTEMS BEING
IMPLEMENTED THAT GAVE. THEM
FLEXIBILITY TO MOVE OUTSIDE OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNOLOGY
STANDARDS. HAS ACTUALLY TURNED
TO BE. THE COMPLETE OPPOSITE-
FROM YOUR POINT OF VIEW. IN
GETTING US INTO THIS- THIS
CYNICAL THAT WE ARE IN TODAY.
VERY GOOD WELL THANK YOU AND
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONTINUED
MONITORING OF THIS WORK WE
APPRECIATE IT VERY MUCH THANK
YOU. THANK YOU. THE NEXT ONE-
INVITE AT NOT MS LINDSAY THE
CONDO. SHE'S THE- FAIR POLITICAL
PRACTICES COMMISSION SENIOR
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. MR CONNOR
THANK YOU FOR BEING A PART OF
OUR CONVERSATION TODAY WE- AGAIN
WELCOME YOUR TESTIMONY I THINK
THE ENCOURAGE YOU TO. GET
CONSOLIDATED AS YOU APPROPRIATE
GIVEN WHAT WE HAVE HEARD
ALREADY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU
MISTER CHAIR SENATOR NEWMAN.
AGAIN I'M LIVES IN A CONDO
SENIOR LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL WITH
THE FTC. THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK OUR
COMMENTS TODAY ARE FORMER
LOOKING- WE'RE LOOK FORWARD TO
THE UP. REPLACEMENTS IN THE IN.
THAT IS CREATE FOR THE FILING
PROCESS AND INCREASE
TRANSPARENCY. IN THE COMMISSION
AGREES WITH SECRETARY WEBER'S
COMMENTS TODAY. THAT WE WOULD
RATHER TAKE THE TIME TO ENSURE
AN EXCELLENT SYSTEM. RATHER THAN
RUSH THINGS AND END UP WITH A
FOUR RESULT- IT IS CAPACITY
CONSULTING ON THE CARS PROJECT
THE COMMISSION HAS PROVIDED
GUIDANCE ON THE LEGAL
REQUIREMENTS OF THE SYSTEM. AS
WELL AS DETAILED FEEDBACK
THROUGHOUT THE MANY STAGES OF
THE PROJECT INCLUDING DURING THE
TESTING PROCESS. OVER THE PAST
SEVERAL MONTHS THE COMMISSION
HAS BEEN WORKING TO BECOME AN
EVEN MORE HELPFUL COLLABORATIVE
PARTNER. WITH THE SECRETARY OF
STATE'S OFFICE. INCLUDING BY
GATHERING INFORMATION ABOUT
OTHER JURISDICTIONS LIKE TRONIC
FILING SYSTEMS. THAT WE THINK
PROVIDE A GOOD END PRODUCT IN
ORDER TO BE ABLE TO CONTRIBUTE A
MORE EDUCATED PERSPECTIVE
THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPMENT OF
THE SYSTEM. TODAY I'M GOING TO
BRIEFLY OUTLINE THREE GENERAL
POINTS OF FUNCTIONALITY THAT WE
LOOK FORWARD TO IN THE NEW
SYSTEM. THAT WE THINK WILL
CREATE SIGNIFICANT BENEFITS.
FIRST WE LOOK FORWARD TO THE
CREATION OF A MORE INTUITIVE
SYSTEM THAT WILL HELP EASE THE
BURDEN OF COMPLIANCE FOR FILERS.
AN IMPORTANT PART OF THIS IS THE
FACT THAT THE SYSTEM WILL BE
DATA DRIVEN. I WHICH WE
UNDERSTAND TO MEAN TRANSACTION
BASED. IN CONTRAST TO OUR
CURRENT SYSTEM WHICH IS FORM
BASED. A DATA DRIVEN TRANSACTION
BASED SYSTEM WOULD ALLOW A
CANDIDATE OR COMMITTEE. TO LOG
INTO THE SYSTEM AND INPUT
TRANSACTIONS LIKE CONTRIBUTIONS
EXPENDITURES ARE LOANS.
INDEPENDENT OF ANY PARTICULAR
FORM. ONE OF THE BENEFITS OF
THIS IS THAT THE FARTHER WOULD
ONLY NEED TO INPUT A PARTICULAR
TRANSACTION ONCE. EVEN IF THE
TRANSACTION IS REQUIRED TO BE
REPORTED ON MORE THAN ONE KIND
OF STATEMENT OR REPORT. FOR
REGULAR CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS
IDEALLY THE SYSTEM. WILL ALERT
FILERS WHEN A REPORT IS COMING
DUE. AND ONCE ALL OF THE
TRANSACTIONS ARE ENTERED DURING
REPORTING PERIOD THE SYSTEM
WOULD BE DESIGNED TO AUTO
POPULATE REPORTS. WITH ALL THE
TRANSACTIONS COVERED DURING THAT
PERIOD. AND THE FILER WITH AND
BE ABLE TO REVIEW THEIR FINAL
REPORT- AND SILENT WHICH WOULD
BE POSSIBLE WITH ONLY A COUPLE
CLICKS OF THE MOUSE BUTTON. IN
ORDER TO MAKE THE NEW FUNDING
FOR S. AS SMOOTH AS- TO. IS OFF
X. A LET. PROPOSAL TO STREAMLINE
SOME OF THE TECHNICAL
REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGNING AND
FILING. CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS IN
CONSULTATION WITH THE SECRETARY
OF STATE'S OFFICE. THEIR
CONTINUING TO GATHER INFORMATION
ON EXACTLY WHAT CHANGES WILL BE
HELPFUL AND BENEFICIAL. AND WE
WILL CONTINUE TO EXPLORE AND
DEVELOP THE SOLUTIONS IN THE
WEEKS LEADING UP TO THE NEXT
LEGISLATIVE SESSION. SECOND WE
LOOK FORWARD TO NEW SYSTEM THAT
WILL IMPROVE THE USABILITY OF
THE PUBLIC FACING SEARCH
WEBSITE. TO INCREASE INCREASE
TRANSPARENCY FOR THE PUBLIC. IN
PARTICULAR WE LOOK FORWARD TO A
SEARCH SYSTEM THAT PRESENTS
INFORMATION AND DATA IN A EASILY
UNDERSTANDABLE FORMAT. AND THAT
HAS ROBUST FILTERING OPTIONS AND
INTUITIVE NAVIGATION. LEARN MORE
ABOUT WHAT IS POSSIBLE IN THIS
AREA. COMMISSION STAFF REVIEWED
DOZENS OF OTHER CAMPAIGN FINANCE
PUBLIC SEARCH SITES AND OTHER
STATES. I WANT EXAMPLE OF
ANOTHER STATE THAT DOES THIS ALL
VERY WELL IS IDAHO. I
RECOGNIZING THE CALIFORNIA IS A
MUCH LARGER STATE WITH MORE
ACTIVITY. WE NONETHELESS SO THE
CALIFORNIA WILL STRIVE TO CREATE
THE BEST POSSIBLE SEARCH TOOLS.
INCLUDING BY LOOKING TO OTHER
JURISDICTIONS FOR INSPIRATION.
THEY'LL HELP THE PUBLIC MAKES
SENSE OF THE MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF
INFORMATION. THAT WILL BE
CONTAINED IN THE SYSTEM. THIRD
THE LAST WE LOOK FORWARD TO A
NEW SYSTEM THAT WILL BE
FLEXIBLE. AND ALLOW FOR FUTURE
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE FILING
SCHEDULE RELATED REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS. DUE TO THE AGE OF
THE CURRENT SYSTEM AS WE KNOW IT
HAS LIMITED ABILITY TO
ACCOMMODATE CHANGES TO REPORTING
AND FILING REQUIREMENTS. AND
CHANGES THAT CAN BE MADE OFTEN
REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT COSTS. AFTER
THE NEWS IT IS ACTIVE WE HAVE TO
THE NEW SYSTEM IS CERTIFIED
THERE WILL ALMOST CERTAINLY BE
LEGISLATIVE CHANGES TO THE
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND
SUBSEQUENT YEARS. THE COMMISSION
BELIEVES THAT IT IS CRUCIAL THAT
THE NEW SYSTEM IS BUILT TO BE
FLEXIBLE. THE COMEDIES CHANGES.
ONE OF THOSE FUTURE LEGISLATIVE
CHANGES MAY POTENTIALLY INCLUDE
REDESIGNING THE CAMPAIGN FINALLY
SCHEDULED TO GO INTO EFFECT
SOMETIME AFTER CARS IS
CERTIFIED. WITH THE NEW SYSTEM
WILL PRESENTS AN OPPORTUNITY TO.
RE EVALUATE THE CAMPAIGN FINANCE
FILING SCHEDULE. A CURRENT
FINALLY SCHEDULES BUILT OVER
TIME AS YOU KNOW AS A RESULT OF
MANY PIECES OF LEGISLATION. AND
OUR STAFF THINKS THAT WE WILL BE
APPROACHING A PERIOD WHERE IT
WILL BE BOTH POSSIBLE AND
GREATLY BENEFICIAL. TO REDESIGN
OUR FILING SCHEDULE IN A
HOLISTIC WAY BASED ON BEST
PRACTICES AND TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THE NEW TECHNOLOGY THAT WILL
BECOME AVAILABLE. THE COMMISSION
IS JUST BEGINNING TO EXPLORE AND
START CONVERSATIONS IN THIS
AREA. AND WE ANTICIPATE IT WILL
BE A MULTI YEAR DISCUSSION A
LONG TERM PROJECT. THANK YOU
AGAIN ADD TO THIS COMMITTEE FOR
YOUR TIME AND ATTENTION FOR
CALLING THIS HEARING TODAY THANK
YOU MISTER CONDO A COUPLE
QUESTIONS FOR ME- WHAT WERE YOU
CONSULTED ON THE DECISION TO
NOT. MAKE THE- THE REBOOT OCCUR
IN IN JUNE OF TWENTY ONE WERE
YOU CONSULTED ON THAT. THE
COMMISSION. I'M NOT AWARE OF
WHETHER WE WERE CONSULTED.
BEFORE THE ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE
I DO KNOW THAT THE COMMISSION-
SUPPORTED AND SENT A LETTER
SUPPORTING THE TWENTY NINETEEN
DELAY IN THE- SYSTEM. YOU DON'T
KNOW WHETHER YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
THEY WERE CONSULTED ON THIS LAST
THAT DECISION TO NOT. GO LIVE IN
TWENTY ONE. NOT BEFORE THE
DECISION WAS MADE. AND WHEN WAS
THE COMMISSION OR- IT CONSULTED
ON THE CONTRACTS THAT WERE-
PERFORMED FOR THIS REBOOT. I'M
NOT AWARE I WAS NOT THE
COMMISSION AT THAT TIME I COULD
CONSULT WITH STAFF AND- OKAY
THAT INFORMATION AS A PART OF
THE LEGISLATION- THE HERTZBERG
LEGISLATION TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN
WAS THAT THE SECRETARY WORK IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE F. PPC. ON
THIS WORK SO I'M INTERESTED IN
KNOWING WHETHER THAT. THAT
HAPPENED OR NOT- GOING BACKWARDS
I KNOW YOU'VE LAID OUT THAT
COULD. SANDERS IS LIKE TO SEE
GOING FORWARD BUT WE'RE TRYING
TO LEARN ALSO FROM WHAT HAPPENED
AND- AND BE INTERESTED IN
KNOWING WHETHER THE COMMISSION
WAS CONSULTED ON A THOSE
CONTRACTS. AND ON THE DECISION
TO NOT GO FORWARD. AB SUBSEQUENT
FOLLOW UP YOU CAN THAT IS NOW.
UNDER NEWMAN ANY QUESTIONS. AB
GESTURES REAL QUICKLY TO YOUR
THIRD POINT ABOUT FLEXIBILITY
THE NEW SYSTEM IS TO KIND OF. I
THANK YOU BY THE WAY FOR BEING
HERE TODAY WHAT WHEN YOU SAY
PARTIALLY REDESIGNING THE FINAL
SCHEDULE BE MORE FLEXIBLE. YEAH
I ASSUME YOU MEAN TO PROVIDE
GREATER REAL TIME THE INSIDER
REGARDING. JIMMY SOMETHING ELSE
. WE ENVISION LOOK AT THE FILING
SCHEDULES A WHOLE- AT OTHER
JURISDICTION WHAT THEY DO. IN
ORDER TO STREAMLINE THE FILING
SCHEDULE FOR FATHERS ALSO
MAINTAINING HIGH TRANSPARENCY SO
WHAT THAT COULD LOOK LIKE IS
REDUCING SOME OF THE ACTIVITY
BASED REPORTING SO THAT'S-
THAT'S THE ON DEMAND REPORTING.
THAT'S EARLIER IN THE YEAR AND
INCREASING REGULAR REPORTING FOR
EXAMPLE TO MONTHLY OR SOMETHING
SIMILAR. TO THAT WHERE THERE IS
REGULAR REPORTING IT'S EASIER
FOR FAMILIES TO ANTICIPATE. A
WIN THEIR REPORTS WILL BE DO-
WHILE ALSO MAINTAINING THAT
TRANSPARENCY FOR FILERS ON A
REGULAR SCHEDULE AND THEN IT.
YOU KNOW WITH RESPECT TO SORT OF
A MORE TRANSACTIONS WHICH I
ASSUME THAT'S- A INCLUDES RIGHT
SO THAT WOULD MAKE IT MUCH
EASIER FOR. A CAMPAIGN TO HAVE
THEIR DATA IN THE SYSTEM. THE
CLOSE OUT REPORT PERIOD CORRECT
THAT'S CORRECT YES GOT A MEMBER
THAT MAKES SENSE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU CENTER NEWMAN THANK
YOU MISTER CONNOR FOR BEING A
PART OF THE CONVERSATION TODAY.
THANK YOU. ALL RIGHT WE WILL
INVITE NEXT WITH THREE SPEAKERS
REPRESENTING ORGANIZATIONS THAT
USE CAL ACCESS. TO FILE REPORTS
FIRST WE'RE GONNA HEAR FROM. A
SPEAKER REPRESENTING THE
CALIFORNIA POLITICAL TREASURES
ASSOCIATION. MISTAKES HE OWNS IS
A BOARD MEMBER OF THAT GROUP.
AND SHE'S GOING TO BE JOINING US
REMOTELY IN THE SILENCE WELCOME
TO OUR HEARING AND YOU. YOU CAN
HEAR US HOPEFULLY WE CAN HEAR
YOU READY TO GO. YES YES IF YOU
CAN HEAR ME WERE READY TO GO.
SIX WEEKS- AND YEAH AND I HAVE
BEEN ACTUALLY EDITING- MY
PRESENTATION AS WE GO ALONG SO
THAT I DON'T TAKE UP TOO MUCH OF
YOUR TIME I. I THANK YOU FOR
INVITING US AND THE CPT DAY- I
JUST WANTED. TO BRIEFLY- EXPLAIN
WHO WE ARE THE CALIFORNIA
POLITICAL TREASURES ASSOCIATION.
IS THE ONLY TREASURERS
ASSOCIATION- INDUSTRY GROUP IN
THE ENTIRE COUNTRY- WE'RE THE
ONLY STATE WHO HAS ONE OF THESE-
WE MEET REGULARLY QUARTERLY- AND
- SKEWS ME. SORT OF SHARE BEST.
ALONG WITH. YOU TO DISCUSS NEW
RIGHT. AND YOU KNOW WHAT YOU
WOULD. THINGS OF INTEREST
ARKHAM. AND SO OF COURSE- CAL
ACCESS HAS BEEN A HUGE HUGE- THE
POINT OF DISCUSSION OF THE
POLITICAL TRADERS ASSOCIATION-
SOME CHALLENGES THAT WE HAVE- IN
OUR INDUSTRY IS THAT WE ARE VERY
NEEDS- THERE ARE NOT MANY PEOPLE
WHO DO WHAT WE DO BECAUSE IT'S A
COMBINATION OF. COMPLIANCE AND
ACCOUNTING. OF THE SO WE HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND REGULATION WE HAVE TO
BE ABLE TO- YOU KNOW MAKE SURE
THAT THAT WHAT OUR CLIENTS ARE
DOING IS PROPER AND LEGAL AND
REAL TIME IN THE MIDDLE OF
HEATED CAMPAIGNS. IN ADDITION TO
THAT WE NEED TO BE KEEPING ALL
THEIR ACCOUNTING DATA LIKE YOU
WOULD FOR ANY NORMAL BOOKKEEPER
FOR ANY BUSINESS. AND WE HAVE TO
BE ON THE FILE ALL OF THESE
FORMS- AND IN THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA IN MANY
JURISDICTIONS- IS SO. ULTIMATELY
A POINT OF DISCUSSION AT OUR
ASSOCIATION HAS BEEN THAT. WE
WOULD LOVE TO GET TO A PLACE IN
THE FUTURE WHERE THE SECRETARY
OF STATE IS THAT THE ONLY FILING
OFFICER- AND WE CAN FILE ALL IN
ONE PLACE I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD. CREATE A LOT MORE
TRANSPARENCY TO THE PUBLIC AT
LARGE IT WOULD ALSO. MAKE IT
EASIER TO KNOW WHERE TO FILE IN
SOME CASES IT CAN BE DIFFICULT
AND I'VE ARE FILING OFFICER IS-
AND SO. WITHOUT SAID IT'S REALLY
OF INTEREST TO US THAT THE- CAL
ACCESS PROJECT IS. IMPLEMENT A
VERY WELL- AND THAT IS
IMPLEMENTED USING SOFTWARES AND
PROCESSES THAT WE- ALREADY ARE
USING- WE HAVE INDUSTRY SOFTWARE
WE HAVE NET FILES STATECRAFT I
S. P. ARISTOTLE IN G. P. THESE
ARE SOFTWARE IS THAT WE COUNT ON
TO BE ABLE TO PUT IN OUR DATA.
AND NOT ONLY FOR FILING WITH YOU
BUT FOR YOU KNOW. MAKING SURE
THAT ALL THE TRANSACTIONS ARE
AND RECONCILING OUR BANK
STATEMENTS GIVING REPORTS TO OUR
CLIENTS SO THAT THEY UNDERSTAND
AT ANY POINT IN A CAMPAIGN WHERE
THEY ARE WITH THEIR BUDGET-
THESE ARE IMPORTANCE OFFERS TO
US IN WHATEVER. IS IMPLEMENTED
NEEDS TO BE ABLE TO WORK WITH
THOSE SOFTWARES IN THE SYSTEMS
THAT WE ALREADY HAVE IN PLACE-
AND ON THAT NOTE YOU'RE GONNA
HEAR ME SAYING THAT FILE AGAIN-
BUT WE AT THE ASSOCIATION. WOULD
LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT NOT FILE
IS. THE MAIN SOFTWARE FOR CITY
AND COUNTY- FILERS IN THE STATE-
SO THEY'RE NOT ONLY THE SOFTWARE
THAT WE ARE USING OFTEN ON THE
PROFESSIONAL TREASURER SIDE. BUT
THEY'RE ALSO THE SOFTWARE THAT
WE ARE FILING INTO WHEN WE FILE
WITH YOUR SAN FRANCISCO OAKLAND
ETCETERA- THEY SEEM TO HAVE A
SYSTEM THAT'S ALREADY WORKING-
AND- WE HAVE BEEN ASKING. ALONG
THE WAY IN THIS PROCESS- IF. THE
SECRETARY OF STATE THE F. B. B.
C. EVERYBODY WHO'S INVOLVED-
COULD WORK MORE CLOSELY WITH
THAT FINAL. TO CREATE THIS NEW
FILING SYSTEM- BECAUSE IT WORKS
AND IT WORKS. ON THE OTHER END
TO WORKS FOR THE PUBLIC WE
OFTEN. NEED TO LOOK UP YOU KNOW
DID THIS FILING GO THROUGH ITS
INSTANTANEOUS TO GO ON TO.
OAKLAND OR SAN FRANCISCO OR YOU
KNOW ANY OF THE OTHER. NET FILE
A CITIES AND COUNTIES- YOU KNOW
TYPE IN THE ID NUMBER OF THE
COMMITTEE TYPE IN THE NAME OF
THE COMMITTEE TYPE IN A PARTIAL
NAME OF THE COMMITTEE- AND
INSTANTLY GET ACCESS TO THE
FILINGS YOU CAN SEE DONORS IT'S
A BEAUTIFUL SEARCH SYSTEM- THE
SO. YOU KNOW I THINK THAT MY
BIGGEST TAKE AWAY FROM THE
SYSTEM IS THAT WE HAVE SOMETHING
THAT WORKS- AT LEAST IT WORKS ON
A SMALLER SCALE. AND IT'S IT
WOULD IT WOULD BE VERY NICE- IN
OUR OPINION IS THE TREASURER'S
ASSOCIATION IF WE COULD. SCALE
BACK OUT AND HAVE SOMETHING
SIMILAR ON THE STATE LEVEL. I
THINK PEOPLE HERE AND HEARING
MEMBER TAKING NOTES SO THANK YOU
FOR MAKING THAT POINT FOR. THANK
YOU. ANYTHING ELSE. SOMEONE'S IN
NOTHING FROM ME AND LESS AND
LESS ANYONE HAS QUESTIONS ABOUT
A POSITION OF A- I SHOULD. YEAH
YEAH SHE WILL QUICKLY WE DO BUT
I GET TO A TO A MYSTICAL ABOUT.
THAT SUGGESTION- AND WHETHER OR
NOT WE WHAT WE IT OUT LIKE LET'S
HOLD AT FOR THE PIN ON IT WILL
COME BACK IT MISTER ONCE THANK
YOU IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU HERE AT
FOR FULL DISCLOSURE YOUR FRIEND
WORKS FOR ME- AND ONE OF MY
COMMITTEES SENATE. AB HAPPY TO
SEE WERE THE DESIGNATED FROM THE
TREASURER'S ASSOCIATION OF
PACIFIC TODAY THANK YOU FOR ALL
YOUR- WISDOM AND KNOWLEDGE.
THANK YOU FOR INVITING US I
APPRECIATE IT TERRIFIC OKAY
WE'RE GONNA NOW INVITE- MISS
LAZILY C. KEYS. PRESIDENT OF THE
CALIFORNIA POLITICAL ATTORNEYS
ASSOCIATION TO. PROVIDE SOME
TESTIMONY TODAY AND SHE'S HERE
IN THE HEARING ROOM AT FOR THAT
CONVERSATION THAT HAS TAKEN
PLACE AND HOPEFULLY YOU CAN
ENHANCE IT VERSES REPEAT IT.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE THANK
YOU CHAIRMAN GLAZER SENATOR
NEWMAN- WONDER REITERATE THANK
YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
POLITICAL ATTORNEYS ASSOCIATION
TO PROVIDE SOME COMMENTS- TO
GIVE SOME CONTEXT TO MY
PARTICIPATION IN ADDITION TO MY
WORK WITH EPA. I'VE BEEN PART OF
WHAT WAS CALLED THE STAKEHOLDER
INPUT GROUP WHICH IS THE
INDUSTRY FOLKS WHO PARTICIPATED
WITH ASAL LAST IN THE VARIOUS
CONTRACTORS TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK.
I WAS ALSO A BETA TESTER OF THE
SYSTEM ONE OF THE THIRD PARTY
PEOPLE THAT ACTUALLY GOT TO GO
IN AND- KEEP THE WHEELS A LITTLE
BIT SO- MY COMMENTS AND-
SCRATCHED OUT THE ONES PEOPLE OF
ART HE SAID AND I FOCUS THEM ON-
WHAT WE HOPE TO SEE IN THE NEW
SYSTEM WHICH IS INFORMED BY SOME
OF THE CHALLENGES WE SAW WITH
THE PRIOR ITERATION OF CARS- THE
FIRST COMING TO MAKE- IS THAT
CPA HOPES TO SEE. THE SYSTEM
RECOGNIZE THAT THE VAST MAJORITY
OF USERS ARE NOT ONE OFF
CAMPAIGNS ENTERING THEIR OWN
DATA REAL TIME IN THE STATE
SYSTEM TO PREPARE FILINGS BY- I
THINK. THAT FILE THE VENDOR THAT
WAS MENTIONED HAS DONE AN
ANALYSIS AND IT'S UP WORDS 85%
OR MORE. OF THE SYSTEM USERS USE
THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE MOST OF
THEM USE- EITHER CPA CPA- TYPE
VENDORS. AND I MENTION THAT
BECAUSE- THE FIRST OF THE SYSTEM
WAS A VERY. ABOUT WITH A MY-
THAT. THE INDIVIDUAL TREASURES
TRACTOR COUNTRY. IN THE STATE
SYSTEM AND THEN HIT SUBMIT THE
REPORTS AND- AS A PRACTICAL
MATTER MOST PEOPLE ARE NOT GOING
TO BE PUTTING DATA INTO THE
SYSTEM UNTIL ITS FILING TIME. SO
THAT JUST PIGGY BACKS ON STACY'S
COMMENTS ABOUT REALLY HAVING A
SYSTEM THAT WORKS WITH THOSE
THIRD PARTY VENDORS. SO THAT WE
CAN SUBMIT DATA WHEN IT'S TIME-
THERE WERE SOME ISSUES WITH THE
PRIOR VERSION WHERE- THERE WAS A
NOTION THE DATA WOULD HAVE TO BE
SUBMITTED BEFORE WE COULD EVEN
SEE WHAT OUR FINDINGS WOULD LOOK
LIKE- WHICH CAUSE GREAT CONCERN
TO THE ATTORNEYS WHO ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING SURE
EVERYTHING'S ACCURATE- AND THE
SOFTWARE VENDORS CAN PROVIDE
MORE DETAIL ON THAT IN THE INPUT
PROCESS BUT- JUST FLAGGING
ACCESS ACTUALLY VERY IMPORTANT
FROM KIND OF A LEGAL PERSPECTIVE
- OUR SECOND HIGH POINT.
RELEASED A SIGNATURE
VERIFICATION THE PRIOR VERSION
WAS KIND OF BILL TAUGHT WITH THE
ASSUMPTION THAT EVERYONE WHO
SIGNS A REPORT IT'S GOING TO GO
THROUGH A MULTI FACTOR.
AUTHENTICATION PROCESS WHICH
MEANS THE GOVERNOR WOULD HAVE TO
DO THAT TO SIGN HIS CAMPAIGN
REPORTS SOMEONE RUNNING FOR CITY
COUNCIL AS WELL AS A RESPONSE OR
OF A COMMITTEE- AND SO JUST
MAKING SURE THAT AGAIN IN
RECOGNITION OF OUR VENDOR
INDUSTRY THAT WERE AUTHORIZING
VENDORS TO THAT THEN WE CAN DO
WHAT WE NEED TO DO FOR THE
FILERS AND THEY CAN. WORRY ABOUT
THEIR CAMPAIGN. AND A COUPLE
OTHER AND COMMENTS I WANTED TO.
HIGHLIGHT AND SO IT'S ALREADY
BEEN MENTIONED THE VENDORS BUT
ONE OF THE THINGS WE SAW WAS THE
VENDORS IN THE PRIOR SYSTEM
DIDN'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT
CALIFORNIA REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS AND SO. THE
REGULATED COMMUNITY WOULD SAY
WELL WE NEED TO BE ABLE TO DO
ACTS BECAUSE THE STATUTE
REQUIRES US TO DO ACTS- AND THAT
FEEDBACK WASN'T REALLY BEING
TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION AND
DEVELOPMENT. SO WHETHER THE
PRIMARY VENDOR HAS CALIFORNIA
EXPERIENCE OR THEY'RE BROUGHT IN
AS A CONSULTANT THERE'S A LOT OF
VALUABLE EXPERIENCE THAT EXISTS
IN CALIFORNIA THAT. CAN BE
TAPPED AS A RESOURCE- IN TERMS
OF TESTING- REGULAR USERS LIKE
MYSELF AND OTHERS WERE ABLE TO
TEST EARLY ON AND PROVIDE
FEEDBACK AND I THINK THAT WAS
VALUABLE TO HELPING THE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE
REALIZED THAT WE WERE NOT READY
FOR GO LIVE. AND I WOULD
ENCOURAGE THAT PROCESS TO
CONTINUE. EARLIER RATHER THAN
LATER SENSE WHERE THE FOLKS ARE
GOING TO IDENTIFY A LOT OF THE
NUANCES THAT CAN BE FIXED-
SPEAKING OF FEEDBACK- ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES IN THE LAST ITERATION
WITH THE THIRD PARTY PROJECT
MANAGER WAS. WE WOULD PROVIDE
FEEDBACK IN THE NEVER HEAR ABOUT
IT AGAIN- AND A LOT OF THAT
FEEDBACK WAS NOT TAKEN SO I
WOULD ENCOURAGE KIND OF AS WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT THE PROCESS TO
HAVE A SYSTEM. TO TRACK THAT
FEEDBACK AND ACTUALLY CIRCLE
BACK TO IT I KNOW AS WELL AS THE
STAFF TRIED TO IMPLEMENT THAT AT
THE END WITH- STAFF BUT IT WAS-
KIND OF TOO LATE FOR THEM TO BE
ABLE TO DO THAT- AND THEN ONE
OTHER ITEM THAT HASN'T BEEN
RAISED BUT I THINK IT'S AN
IMPORTANT ONE. IS THE CURRENT
SYSTEM I THINK THE WAY THAT-
CARS ONE PLANO WAS BEING
DEVELOPED SO REQUIRED A LOT OF
HUMAN INTERVENTION. BY SECRETARY
OF STATE STAFF. AND I'LL GIVE A
PRACTICAL EXAMPLE- LOBBY
REGISTRATION RENEWALS WERE DUE
IN DECEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY.
AND DATA RELATED TO THOSE
REGISTRATIONS- AS LATE AS LAST
MONTH STILL HADN'T BEEN MANUALLY
ENTERED BY THE TEAM THAT ALSO
LOST ON CARRACKS **** SO. IF THE
FILE CHANGE THROUGHOUT FOR. THE
OLD I'D WAS STILL ON THERE AND
THAT'S BY NO MEANS A REFLECTION
ON THE STAFF THEY ARE. HAVE SO
MUCH WORK AND THEY WORK VERY
HARD BUT- WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
UPDATE OUR REGISTRATION
INFORMATION AND HAVE THE SYSTEM
AUTOMATICALLY ACCEPTED UPON
FINDING. THE THINGS LIKE
PRACTICAL THINGS LIKE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SEE IN THE SYSTEM. THE
BOTTLE I HAVE IN TERMS OF MY
PREPARED COMMENTS THAT I DON'T
THINK HAD BEEN PREVIOUSLY.
STATED THANK YOU ALL VERY
HELPFUL AND INFORMATIVE-
CERTAINLY THE FEEDBACK ON THE
TESTING- AND AS WELL AS THE LACK
OF- FEEDBACK FROM THE PROJECT
MANAGER- THAT YOU EXPERIENCE. I
DO AGAIN I'D NEVER HEARD OF THE
FROM PERSPECTIVE BEFORE THIS
HEARING. EATING INDICATE THEY'RE
NOT CALIFORNIA BASED AND
THEREFORE WEREN'T AWARE OF OUR-
RULES AND REGULATIONS. THAT WAS
MY TAKE AWAY- I CAN'T SPEAK TO
WEAR THEIR DOMICILED BY- JUST
OUR EXPERIENCE IN BACK AND FORTH
WITH THE TIME WE- TALK TO THEM
ABOUT TWENTY FIRE REPORTING IT
WAS LIKE. THEY HAD NO IDEA ABOUT
THE DIFFERENT REQUIREMENTS
THROUGH THICK CENTER JIM ANY
QUESTIONS. NO NO QUESTION THANK
THANK YOU VERY MUCH THANK YOU
FOR YOUR TIME. THANK YOU THANK
YOU VERY MUCH. REMOVE ON THE
JOHN VALENCIA REPRESENTING THE
CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF
GOVERNMENTAL ADVOCATES. JOHN IS
CHAIR OF THE INSTITUTE TO
LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE- MISTER
LANCIA AS I UNDERSTAND IT-
LOBBYISTS HAVE BEEN PAYING FOR
THIS OPERATE. QUITE AWHILE NOW.
SINCE THE SINCE THE BEGINNING
CENTER YES SO YOU HAVE A STAKE
IN IT THAT BOTH WAYS BOTH A
CONTRACTUALLY SYSTEM AS- WELL
AS- WHEN A SYSTEM THAT'S
RESPONSIVE TO YOU. SO WE WALKING
YOURSELF THANK YOU FOR THE
INVITATION TO APPEAR GOOD.
MORNING MR CENTER NEWMAN. IGAD
OF LEFT WITHOUT IN A SEVENTY
FOR. IMMEDIATELY FOR THE ATTACK
OF THE ACT. THE ACT. THE
POLITICAL REFORM ACT HAS THREE
MAJOR CONSTITUENCIES PUBLIC
OFFICIALS IN THEIR PUBLIC
OFFICIAL CAPACITY. CAMPAIGN
COMMITTEES AND LOBBYISTS.
LOBBYIST FIRMS AND LOBBYIST
EMPLOYERS WHETHER THOSE ARE
CLIENTS OR IN HOUSE LOBBYIST
EMPLOYERS- FOR. INDIVIDUALS IN
THAT CAPACITY. OUR REPORTING OUR
COMPLIANCE IS INFINITELY
SIMPLER. AND OUR ORGANIZATION
DOESN'T BELIEVE THAT WE SHOULD
BE DEPENDENT ON A COTTAGE
INDUSTRY OF THIRD PARTY THIRD
PARTY TECHNOLOGY INTERMEDIARIES
IDEALLY. IN OUR WORLD IN
CALIFORNIA WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
LOG ON WITH THE SPECIFIED
ACCOUNT OF THE SUPPOSED TO BY
THE SECRETARY OF STATE. TO FILE
REGISTRATIONS FILE AMENDMENTS
FILE UPDATES THAT ARE VERY
SIMPLE ADDITIONS DELETIONS.
QUARTERLY REPORTS AND THE LIKE
WHICH ARE VASTLY THEM WITH-
DIFFERENT THAN THE REGULARITY
AND THE FREQUENCY AND THE
MAGNITUDE OF CAMPAIGN REPORTING-
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT. THE
TRANSPARENCY SOUGHT BY THE ACT
IS NOT GOING TO BE ACHIEVED
UNLESS THERE'S A SIMPLE AT LEAST
IN OUR CORNER OF THE REGULATED
FIELD. UNLESS THERE'S A SIMPLE
AND INTUITIVE SITE HOSTED BY THE
SECRETARY OF STATE THAT ALLOWS
US TO COMPLY. NOT ONLY WITH
EXISTING LAW. BUT WITH SOME
TECHNOLOGICAL OVERLAYS THAT ARE
A FUNCTION OF LEGISLATION. ON A
POLICY FRONT WE HAVE TWO
RECOMMENDATIONS FIRST
RESPECTFULLY WE RECOMMEND THAT
THE LEGISLATURE PAUSE ADDING
ADDITIONAL LEGISLATIVE LEGAL
REQUIREMENTS THAT TRANSLATE INTO
TECHNOLOGICAL OVERLAYS AND
REQUIREMENTS FOR A SYSTEM THAT'S
UNDER RECONSTRUCTION. I THINK
YOU HEARD OF PRIOR SPEAKER
BECAUSE SPEAK TO THAT AND
SEVERAL OF OFFER CAUTIONS ON
THAT FRONT. SENATE BILL FOR
FIFTY NINE FROM THE JUST
CONCLUDED SESSION WHICH MOVE
THROUGH THIS COMMITTEE. IMPOSES
TIME SENSITIVE DISCLOSURE
REQUIREMENTS FORTY EIGHT HOURS.
BUT GIVEN THE TIME FRAME THAT
YOU'RE HEARING FROM THE
SECRETARY OF STATE AND THE TERMS
WITHIN THAT STATUTE WILL BE
FORTUNATE TO SEE THAT MEASURE
IMPLEMENTED BY TWENTY THIRTY. IF
THAT. SO THE SYSTEM BECAUSE IT'S
ALL A MATTER OF LAW WILL HAVE TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT IN ORDER FOR IT
AT SOME POINT WITHIN A YEAR OF
THE CERTIFICATION OF THE SYSTEM.
BE ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE THE NEW
REQUIREMENT FOR EXIT CHEN
FILINGS. SO WE URGE THE
LEGISLATURE THE VARIOUS
STAKEHOLDERS THE OF PPC TO JUST
TAKE A PAUSE AND LET THE NEW
SYSTEM COME INTO EXISTENCE. AND
WE SEE THAT THE NEW SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT PROVIDING AN
OPPORTUNITY. PLACEMENT AGENT
WHICH ARE UNIQUE RECRUITER OF
INVESTMENTS FROM THE STATE WERE
AS A RESULT OF LEGISLATION BACK
SEVERAL YEARS AGO. AWKWARDLY
SHOEHORNED INTO THE FIELD OF
REPORTING AS LOBBYIST. PLACEMENT
AGENTS WORK WITH A SMALL
UNIVERSE OF STATE AGENCIES AND
THEY DO A LIMITED AMOUNT OF
ACTIVITY REALLY IN THE FORM OF
RECRUITING INVESTMENTS- WE THINK
THAT THE NEW SYSTEM. AFFORDS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE CREATION OF
REPORTING THAT IS UNIQUE TO THAT
FIELD THAT HAS THAT THAT
REFLECTS THEIR UNIQUE
TERMINOLOGY AND AT THE END OF
THE DAY UNLESS ADDITIONAL
AGENCIES COME ON BOARD REALLY
REVOLVES AROUND THREE MAJOR
INVESTMENT ENTITIES THE UC.
CALPERS AND CAL STIRS AND THAT'S
IT AND YET THOSE INDIVIDUALS
THERE ARE SEVERAL HUNDRED OF
THEM I KNOW I COUNCIL SEVERAL OF
THEM WITH COMPLIANCE. AND THEY
HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THE
TERMINOLOGY IS THAT IS UNIQUE TO
LEGISLATIVE ADVOCACY OR AGENCY
ADVOCACY IS A COMPLETED PORSCHE
SO WE RECOMMEND THAT AS A AS AN
OPPORTUNITY UNDER THE
RECONSTRUCT THANKS VERY MUCH FOR
THE OPPORTUNITY HELP ANSWER ANY
QUESTION THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ENERGY MANY QUESTIONS YESTERDAY
THANK GOD THANK YOU SO MUCH. ALL
RIGHT WE'RE GONNA WELCOME-
LAURA- BRZEZINSKI- IS THE
LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR FOR
CALIFORNIA COMMON CAUSE I KNOW A
BIG. SUPPORTER OF THIS WHOLE
TRANSPARENCY DISCLOSURE ISSUE.
THAT SPREADS IN SKI THANK YOU
FOR BEING HERE THANK YOU KAREN
MEMBERS ALEX IS NOW OVER TWO
DECADES OLD HAVING BEEN BOLSTERS
BONTA LAUDABLE POLICY OBJECTIVES
OF CAMPAIGN FINANCE
TRANSPARENCY. THAT WERE CAPTURED
INTO LAW IN NINETEEN NINETY
SEVEN. HOWEVER AS MAY BE
EXPECTED THAT SYSTEM IS NOW
WOEFULLY OUTDATED. THE SYSTEM IS
DIFFICULT AND CONFUSING TO
NAVIGATE WHETHER FROM A FILER
PERSPECTIVE A MEMBER OF THE
PUBLIC. OR AS A GOVERNMENT
WATCHDOG. CALIFORNIA COMMON
CAUSE FIRST BEGAN ENGAGING. IN A
DISCUSSION OF REPLACE PRINT
SYSTEM TO CALYX US THROUGH CO
CONVENING THE PULL REFORM AND
MODERN. COALITION PRAM WHICH
DEVELOPS CONS FOR. THIRTEEN
FORTY NINE. WHICH PROVIDE THE
STATUTORY BASIS FOR CARDS. IN
ADDITION TO WORKING ON THAT
FOUNDATIONAL LEGISLATION FOR
CARS. COMING BECAUSE CONTINUE TO
TRY TO ENGAGE WITH THE CARS
PROJECT THROUGHOUT THE YEARS BY
SUBMITTING RECOMMENDATIONS OF
WHAT CARS SHOULD CONTAIN.
EMERGENCY PAINTING AND WORKING
GROUP MEETINGS CONVENED BY THE
SOS. HOWEVER ESTO ES INTERACTION
WITH US DIMINISH AFTER A VENDOR
FOR THE REBUILD WAS CHOSEN IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN. AND CRIME WAS
DISBANDED. NOW WE ARE EIGHT
YEARS AFTER THE PASSAGE OF SB
THIRTEEN FORTY NINE. AND STILL
FACING THE SAME ISSUES WITH CAL
ACCESS ONLY WORKS. TRANSPARENCY
COMPLIANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
ARE ALL DIMINISH BECAUSE OF AN
OUTDATED SYSTEM WHICH RESULTS IN
DECREASED TRUSTING GOVERNMENT
AND DIMINISH CIVIC ENGAGEMENT.
AS THE SOS NOW BEGINS ANOTHER
ATTEMPT AT CREATING CARS AND
RVS. THE FOREMOST GOAL FOR
CALLIXTUS REPLACEMENT SYSTEM
MUST BE TO INCREASE TRANSPARENCY
FOR THE PUBLIC. VOTERS WANT TO
KNOW. WHO ARE THE BIG MONEY
INTERESTS BEHIND CERTAIN
CANDIDATES RUNNING TO REPRESENT
THEM. WHO LOBBIED ON A CERTAIN
BILL AND WHO SPENT THE MOST TO
DO SO. WHAT SPECIAL INTEREST
GROUP HAS GIVEN THE MOST TO THE
REPRESENTATIVE OVER THE PAST TEN
YEARS. IN ORDER FOR THIS
INFORMATION TO ACTUALLY BE
MEANINGFUL IT NEEDS TO BE
PRESENTED IN WAYS THAT ARE EASY
TO UNDERSTAND. NAVIGATE AND
SEARCH. SOME MORE SPECIFICALLY.
THE INTERFACE AND NAVIGATION
SHOULD BE INTUITIVE TO MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC. INCLUDING FOR
SUMMARIES AND VISUAL DISPLAYS
LIKE GRAPHS CHARTS AND MAPS. AND
THE REPLACEMENT SYSTEM MUST BE
DATA DRIVEN RATHER THAN FORM
BASED TO ALLOW FOR SEARCH
ABILITY. DATA COMPARISONS AND
INTEGRATION OF INFORMATION
BETWEEN THE LOBBYIST AND
CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURES-
MORE SPEED MORE SPECIFICS
INCLUDE THE ABILITY TO CROSS
SEARCH FILERS AND DONORS.
DISPLAY OF AGGREGATE- FILER
DONOR INFORMATION OVER TIME.
HYPERLINKS TO ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION NGO SEARCH
CAPABILITIES- AND THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS ARE FOUND IN THE
DOCUMENTS THAT WE SUBMITTED TO
YOUR COMMITTEE EARLIER. THESE
CHANGES WILL HELP MAKE CARS
ACCESSIBLE FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC LOOKING TO MAKE INFORMED
CHOICES ON THE BALLOT. OR
UNDERSTAND THE IMPACT OF MONEY
IN SACRAMENTO POLICY MAKING.
COMING BECAUSE BELIEVES THAT THE
SYSTEM SHOULD ALSO BE IMPROVE
FOR FILERS. IT SHOULD NOT BE A
GOTCHA MOMENT FOR CAMPAIGNS
CANDIDATES AND LOBBYISTS WHO CAN
MAKE MISTAKES ON FORM
SUBMISSIONS DUE TO CONFUSION.
IMPROVES FILER INTERFACES SHOULD
PROVIDE AUTOMATED REMINDERS
CLEAR INSTRUCTIONS. ATION OF
STANDARD OR PEATED INFORMATION
OUT OF SOME TOTALS AND ERROR
MESSAGES BEFORE SUBMISSION. THIS
WALL FACILITATE COMPLIANCE
ELIMINATE COMPUTATIONAL ERRORS
AND COLLECT CLEANER DATA. LASTLY
COX'S REPLACEMENT MUST BE
FLEXIBLE THE FUTURE WILL BRING
NEW TECHNOLOGY NEW LAWS NEW DATA
MANAGEMENT STANDARDS AND NEW
DATA VISUALIZATION BEST
PRACTICES. OURS MUST BE ABLE TO
ADAPT TO CHANGE AND GROW IN
ORDER TO KEEP UP. WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE SURE THE
RESULT IS MORE THAN CHECK THE
BOXES OF WHAT IS REQUIRED. BUT
ACTUALLY FUNCTIONS IN A WAY THAT
PROACTIVELY FACILITATES
TRANSPARENCY FILE COMPLIANCE AND
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY IN
ORDER TO RESTORE PUBLIC TRUST IN
GOVERNMENT. I WOULD LIKE TO
COMMEND SECRETARY WEBER AND HER
TEAM FOR THEIR WORK ON IT THUS
FAR. OVER THE LAST SEVERAL
MONTHS ESOS CARS TEAM HAVE BEEN
ENGAGED COMMON CAUSE AND OTHER
STAKEHOLDERS BY INVITING
FEEDBACK HOSTING PUBLIC
MEETINGS. AND MAKING THEMSELVES
AVAILABLE WE BELIEVE THIS IS A
STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION AND
LOOK FORWARD TO FURTHER
COLLABORATIVE WORK WITH THE
SECRETARY OF STATE PARTICULARLY
DURING VENDOR PROCUREMENT. THANK
YOU THANK YOU MISTER PRESIDENT
SKI. APPRECIATE COMMON CAUSES
ENGAGEMENT FROM THE BEGINNING IN
THIS WHOLE EFFORT OF
TRANSPARENCY THAT WE ALL SHARE.
AND THAT IT'S OBVIOUSLY SORRY TO
HEAR THE FRUSTRATIONS YOU HAD
ALSO WITH THE- PREVIOUS OFFICE
AND VENDOR. HOPEFULLY THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN NOT NOT I
HAVE GOING FORWARD SO APPRECIATE
THAT SENTIMENT ANYTHING FROM
YOU. REAL QUICKLY CHANGE IF YOU
COULD RESPOND TO MR LYNCH'S
POINTED. A SERVE URGING US TO GO
SLOW ON A NEW REFORMS
LEGISLATIVE CHANGES- SENATE
COMING BECAUSE IT'S BEEN PART OF
THOSE CONVERSATIONS HAVE HOW
WOULD YOU RESPOND TO THAT AMEDEO
HE MAKES A GOOD POINT. YES AND
WE HAVE BEEN PART OF LEGISLATION
HOPING TO SEE- YOU KNOW
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CARS
HOWEVER I THINK AT THIS POINT
THE POINT IS. WELL TAKEN THAT-
IT'S TIME TO GET CARDS UP AND
RUNNING. GREAT THANK YOU THANK
YOU SENATE-ROOM AND THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR YOUR TESTIMONY. FINALLY
I WANT TO INVITE THAT THAT
DANIEL NEWMAN WHO I KNOW HAS
BEEN WAITING PATIENTLY. ONLINE
TO PROVIDE HIS TESTIMONY MAP
LIGHT. AS BEEN INVOLVED AS IS
COMMON BECAUSE IN SO MANY WAYS-
AND ON THIS IS GOAL OF GREATER
TRANSPARENCY AND I KNOW WE-
SPOKE EARLIER ABOUT- CENTER
PATILLAS- WORK WITH THE- WITH
YOUR WITH YOUR GROUP- IN IN
CREATING. THAT POWER SEARCH
FUNCTION WHICH I KNOW YOU WERE
VERY INVOLVED IN. MISTER NEWMAN
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US WE HAVE
A LITTLE CONSTRICTED TIME
REQUIREMENTS. APPRECIATE YOUR
TESTIMONY TODAY. BUT HE CARE
RAZOR AND SOME. HI MY NAME IS
NEWMAN I'M THE- OF MAP PLAY
WE'RE A NON. NON FOR.
ORGANIZATION BASED HEARING HOW.
FOUNDED SEVENTY YEARS AGO. AND
WE'RE PH ON. TRADE FOR MONEY IN
POLITICS WE HAVE EXTENSIVE
EXPERIENCE WORKING WITH ALEX AND
STATE ACT AND MAKING IT
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. AND AS
YOU NOTED SURE GLAZER AS PART OF
OUR WORK TO IMPROVE TRANSPARENCY
FOR CAMPAIGN FINANCE. MOUNTLAKE
INITIATED THIS POWER SEARCH
SYSTEM THE IDEA FOR IT AND THE
EXECUTION WE WORK WITH THE CHIU
PREVIOUS SECRETARIES OF STATE
SECRETARY YEAH I MEAN FOR THAT
CENTURY BOWING. AND MAKE THE
DATE AT THE EXISTING HOW ACCESS
SYSTEM MORE ACCESSIBLE TO THE
PUBLIC AND AS YOU NOTED IN
TWENTY FIFTEEN ROUTE BLIGHTED
SECRETARY TO GET LAW FINDS POWER
SURGE. WHICH IS NOW THE MAIN WAY
THAT THE PUBLIC CAN MAKE USE OF
OUR ACCESS DATA. PRIOR THE POWER
SURGE A MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC HE
WANTED TO SEE FOR EXAMPLE HOW
MUCH A PARTICULAR CONTRIBUTOR
CONTRIBUTED THE CALIFORNIA
LAWMAKERS HAD TO DOWNLOAD. CHIU
HUNDRED SEPARATE EXCEL
SPREADSHEETS AND SOMEHOW THEY
CAN TRY TO COMBINE THAT WITH OUR
SEARCH ALL THIS CAN BE ACCESSED. WITH A FEW CLICKS OF THE
MOUSE. NO ONE IS IT IN FOR THE
PUBLIC TO BE ABLE TO ACCESS
THESE. FINANCE DATA SO HAS THE
RULES BECAUSE OF SAID IT'S-
BECAUSE IN FOR. ABOUT SUPPORTING
OUR ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES IS
FOUNDATIONAL TO HEALTHY
DEMOCRACY IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
JOURNALISTS NONPROFIT GROUPS AND
GRASSROOTS CITIZENS TO SHINE A
LIGHT ON THE FORCES THAT AFFECT
OUR STATE. AND CAMPAIGN FINANCE
INFORMATION IS ALSO VITAL FOR
VOTERS MANY VOTERS MAKE THEIR
DECISION ON BALLOT MEASURES FOR
EXAMPLE IN PART ON FUNDING
INFORMATION ABOUT WHO IS
FINDING. THOSE BALLOT MEASURES
AND THAT'S WHY DISCLOSURE OF THE
MONEY CONTRIBUTED TO CAMPAIGNS
IS THE LAW NOT ONLY IN
CALIFORNIA BUT IN EVERY STATE IN
THE COUNTRY BECAUSE IT'S SO
FOUNDATIONAL. TO DEMOCRACY.
DON'T PACIFIC IMPROVEMENTS TO
THE CARD SYSTEM WE APPRECIATE
THE EXCELLENT WORK OF THE
SECRETARY CITY STAFF IN THE
CAR'S REBOOT IN SEEKING TO
IMPLEMENT A MODERN CARS SYSTEM.
MATHWAY HAS SUBMITTED AND
DETAILED LETTER AS PART OF THE
WRITTEN RECORD OF THIS HEARING
WITH OUR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
FEATURES TO BE INCLUDED TO MAKE
A PUBLIC INTERFACE THAT IS EASY
TO USE AND POWERFUL. SO THAT THE
TRANSPARENCY GOALS OF THE SYSTEM
CAN BE A PROBABLY MATH. AND
ADDITION IN ADDITION TO THE WORK
THAT THE SECRETARY OF STATE
STAFF IS DOING TO MEET MONTHLY
BUDGETS CONSTITUENCY GROUPS
WHICH WE APPLIED WE ALSO
RECOMMEND THAT AS PART OF THE
CONTRACTED SYSTEM THAT THERE BE
USER TESTING. WITH CITIZENS
JOURNALISTS NONPROFIT GROUPS AND
FILERS THAT'S PART OF THE
INTERFACE DEVELOPMENT SO THAT
ALONG THE WAY ANY PROBLEMS CAN
BE CAUGHT AND WE CAN PUT FORWARD
A SYSTEM FOR THE STATE THAT IS
AN EXAMPLE FOR THE WHOLE
COUNTRY. THANK YOU WE APPRECIATE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO TESTIFY AND
WE'RE PLEASED TO OFFER NOW PLATE
IS A RESOURCE AS THIS PROJECT
CONTINUES TO DEVELOP. THANK YOU
MISTER NEWMAN AND YOUR WRITTEN
TESTIMONY HAS BEEN RECEIVED AND
REVIEWED WE THANK YOU FOR THAT-
AND FOR THE LEADERSHIP THAT YOU
HAVE EXHIBITED YOUR GROUP HAS
EXHIBITED. OVER THESE MANY-
ALMOST TWENTY YEARS CENTER DOING
ANY FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS FOR
MISTER NEWMAN I JUST WANT TO
POINT OUT THAT MR NEWMAN ARE NOT
RELATED- GREAT BUT BUT THANK YOU
FOR THE GOOD WORK HE SAID THAT
AS PART OF OUR DISCLOSURE
EFFORTS THANK YOU FOR THAT. AND
THERE WERE SOME QUESTIONS YOU
KIND OF LOOK ALIKE. THAT'S OKAY-
OKAY THAT THAT THAT CONCLUDES
THE PRESENTERS WE ARE GOING TO
MOVE TO THE PUBLIC. AND I WANT
TO GET THEM THE IN QUEUE IF THEY
ARE GOING TO HAVE SOME COMMENTS
WE HAVE SOME. SOME TIME
LIMITATIONS WE WANT TO GET THAT
TOGETHER. BUT I DO KNOW THAT
CENTER NEWMAN HAD A FOLLOW UP
QUESTION THIRTY WANTED TO RAISE
BEFORE WE WENT THE PUBLIC
COMMENT. TO ANYTHING HE WAS JUST
SO MR CORNELIA IT'S ACTUALLY FOR
YOU IT'S GETTING BACK TO THIS-
THAT THE POINT THAT- MISS OWENS
MADE ABOUT THE PROSPECTIVELY.
ENSURING THAT THAT THIRD PARTY
SERVER SOLUTIONS LIKE NET FILE
WERE WERE EASILY INTEGRATED THEY
WERE TALKING DIRECTLY TO THE
SYSTEM. IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
YOU ARE CONSIDERING. IT OR
WORKING ON ACTIVELY RIGHT NOW.
YEAH ARE YOU FOR TO THE
REPLACEMENT CARD SYSTEM. WHAT
YEAR FOR THE COURSE SHOULD PLACE
BECAUSE HIM AND HER PAW THAT THE
YOU KNOW THERE SIR. SHOPPERS
WILL ARE COME. YOU IN THAT
MINISTRY ARE USING- SO OBVIOUSLY
WOULD BE IDEAL IF THOSE SYSTEMS
SPOKE DIRECTLY TO. THE COURT
SYSTEM- AS YOU DEVELOPMENT
ACTUALLY TO ENABLE THAT LET'S
COUNTRY EARLY TO SAY WHAT WHAT
THE CAPABILITIES ARE- SUCH AS
FEATURES BECAUSE WE WOULD NEED A
SI TO KIND OF. LET US KNOW FIRST
WHAT PLATFORM ARE GONNA GO TO SO
IT'S A LITTLE BIT BEYOND. YOU
KNOW I'LL SEE JUST LOVE IT EARLY
TO SAY THAT. BUT THOSE CUTS
THOSE CAPABILITIES ARE OF YOUR
PRESIDENT A LOT OF OTHER TYPE OF
FUNCTIONS FOR- THE- OTHER USES
THAT PEOPLE USE FOR ONLINE
SERVICES I DON'T THINK THAT'S
ALL THE RAIL. I JUST DON'T HAVE.
ENOUGH INFORMATION RIGHT NOW TO
SEE A WITHOUT SI BEING ON BOARD
OF WHAT TYPE OF FAR FROM GOING
TO HAVE. TO SAY FOR SURE- WHAT
THAT LOOKS LIKE. NO I APPRECIATE
AND I THINK SHE MAKES A VERY
GOOD POINT SO I'D I I'D URGE YOU
TO CONSULT A RECORD WITH. YOU
KNOW WITH THAT ORGANIZATION MAKE
SURE THAT THAT IS THE SIX
SOMETHING EXTRA. OKAY THANK YOU.
TERRIFIC THANK YOU. OKAY WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
COMMENT- SEGMENT OF OUR HEARING.
THREE ONE AND WE'RE GOING TO
LIMIT IT TO A MINUTE APIECE
ANYONE HERE IN THE HEARING ROOM
THAT WOULD LIKE TO PROVIDE
PUBLIC COMMENT PLEASE. COME ON
FORWARD YES WELCOME. THANK YOU.
MISTER CHAIRMAN AND SENATOR
NEWMAN PROSTATE JONES ON BEHALF
OF. EXCUSE ME CALIFORNIA
POLITICAL TRADE ASSOCIATION. IN
THAT FILE. NOT FILED CURRENTLY
OPERATES ABOUT A HUNDRED SIXTY
SEVEN CITIES IN THE STATE IN.
TWENTY SIX COUNTIES WE'VE TALKED
TO THE SECRETARY STAFF BEFORE.
WE APPRECIATE THEIR DILIGENT
EFFORTS AND BE HAPPY TO TALK TO
THEM IN THE FUTURE TO WORK WITH
THE COMMITTEE- I AGREE WITH ALL
THE COMMENTS MADE BY MRS OWENS
THE MRS KEYS. THERE THERE SEEMS
TO BE A BETTER FASTER EASIEST
WAY TO EASIER WAY TO DO THIS.
THAT WE WOULD BE COMPATIBLE. TO
WHAT WE'RE DOING TODAY. SO MORE
THAN HAPPY TO WORK WITH MANY
POINTS. THANK YOU THANK YOU FOR
THAT TESTIMONY ANYONE ELSE HERE
IN ROOM TWENTY TWO HUNDRED. OKAY
WE'RE GONNA GO TO THE PHONE
LINES- MODERATOR WE HAVEN'T SAID
HELLO TO YOU YET. THANK YOU FOR
YOUR HELP TODAY. OTHERS OR
ANYONE WHAT WAITING TO TESTIFY.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THIS TIME
PLEASE PRESS ONE AND THEN ZERO.
THERE. MICROPHONE THANK YOU
THURMOND NOW ONLINE AT THIS TIME
ALL RIGHT. ALL RIGHT WELL LET'S
WE'RE GONNA CLOSE OUR HEARINGS
AND AT THIS POINT IN TIME THERE
HAS BEEN SOME WRITTEN TESTIMONY
THAT WE WILL PUT AS A PART OF
THE RECORD. THANK YOU FOR THAT-
WE- YOU KNOW THIS THIS THIS
OVERSIGHT WORK THAT WE DO IS NOT
ALWAYS EASY- BUT IT'S IMPORTANT
AND A PART OF THAT. THE REVIEW
OF THE HISTORY OF THIS CAL
ACCESS SYSTEM WAS OF COURSE TO
RECOGNIZE. THE LEADERS OF THE
LEGISLATURE WHO WORK SO HARD TO.
PUT THIS TRANSPARENCY PORTAL IN
PLACE- SOMETHING CASES OF
FRUSTRATION. AND THEIR INABILITY
TO PROVIDE MORE AGGRESSIVE
REFORM AND IMPROVEMENT- BUT OF
COURSE THAT THE UNANIMOUS
CONSENT OF THE LEGISLATURE IN
TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN. TO MAKE
THE SYSTEM. A CHANGE FOR THE
BETTER AND OF COURSE TODAY OUR
FRUSTRATION THAT THAT REALLY
HASN'T HAPPENED. WE CERTAINLY
APPLAUD SECRETARY WEBER AND HER
KNOWLEDGE MENT OF THE SHORTFALLS
THAT HAVE OCCURRED. WE HOPE THAT
THROUGH THE HEARING TODAY INTO
HER WORK. THAT WE'VE LEARNED
SOME LESSONS OF WHAT HAS
HAPPENED SO THAT WE WILL NOT
REPEAT THEM. IN THE FUTURE WE'RE
ALL COMMITTED TO THIS
TRANSPARENCY AT THE
REQUIREMENTS. IT IT'S A VALUE
THAT WE HAVE HERE IN CALIFORNIA
OF FULL DISCLOSURE OF THOSE WHO
ARE LOBBYING THE LEGISLATURE
THOSE WHO WERE WANTING TO
INFLUENCE HIS ELECTED OFFICE.
THAT THERE BE EASY ACCESSIBLE
DISCLOSURE OF WHO'S
PARTICIPATING AND EVERYONE CAN
MAKE ANY. JUDGMENT THEY WANT TO
MAKE ABOUT THAT BUT THAT. SHOULD
EASY- AND IT SHOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT- THREATENS OUR DEMOCRACY-
AND HERE IN THE SENATE ELECTIONS
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
COMMITTEE- MORE THAN EVER FOCUS
ON STRENGTHENING OUR DEMOCRACY
TRUST IN OUR DEMOCRACY.
ELECTIONS ALL THOSE WHO
PARTICIPATE GOVERNMENT DECISION
MAKING AND ALL THOSE THAT
PARTICIPATE IT'S FUNDAMENTAL TO
THE WORK THAT WE DO TO HAVE
THAT. THE ELEMENT OF TRUST AND
THE SYSTEM IS A CRITICAL. ACCESS
POINT BLANK HOWEVER HOWEVER YOU
WANT TO DESCRIBE IT TO BUILDING
THAT TRUST AND OPENNESS AND
HONESTY IN THE WORK THAT WE DO.
I THANK ALL THE FOLKS THAT ARE
HERE FROM THE SECRETARY'S OFFICE
FROM TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT. AND
OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES WHO
HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THIS
CONVERSATION. IT SHOULD NOT AND
TODAY BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF
WORK TO DO AND OBVIOUSLY A LOT
OF MONEY'S BEEN SPENT. AND WE
ALL EXPECT TO HAVE SOME
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR HOW THAT IS
GOING TO HAPPEN GOING FORWARD. I
WANT TO NOTE THAT. THIS IS THE
FINAL TIME THAT MY COLLEAGUES
HERE IN THE SENATE COMMITTEE
WILL BE MEETING BEFORE THE
SESSION IS FORMALLY ENDING. A
VICE YOU'RE NIELSEN SENATOR
HERTZBERG IN LABOR NOT HERE WITH
US TODAY BUT THEIR SERVICES TO
THIS COMMITTEE ARE RECOGNIZED
AND APPRECIATED. IN ADDITION
DISCUSS. OUR PRINCIPAL
CONSULTANT KAREN FRENCH'S
ASSISTED THIS COMMITTEE ARE
WONDERFUL COMMITTEE SECRETARY-
AND I THANK THEM FOR THEIR WORK
THAT THEY HAVE DONE THIS YEAR.
AB FINALLY IF YOU HAVE
ADDITIONAL TESTIMONY THAT YOU
WERE NOT ABLE TO GIVE TODAY THAT
YOU COULD SUBMIT YOUR COMMENTS
AND SUGGESTIONS IN WRITING. TO
THE COMMITTEE ON ELECTIONS- AND
OUR WEBSITE YOUR- COMMENTS AND
SUGGESTIONS ARE IMPORTANT TO US
AND WE WANT TO INCLUDED IN THE
OFFICIAL. HEARING RECORD. THANK
YOU AND WE APPRECIATE YOUR
BUSINESS. THAT THE FINAL MEETING
OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON
ELECTIONS CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS. IS A JERK. THANK YOU.